---
author_profile: true
date: 01-05-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/02
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/01
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/30
title: May 1
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Up early, Spiral, Swivel and I were not happy to find rain falling at the shelter. We opted to wait for awhile instead of rushing out into the rain. Soon the rain stopped and we got going, still early compared to some days.

Our mission was to hike as far as we could go before my dad came to pick us up. We planned to go back with him to Charlottesville for the rest of the day and the next morning. We made good time as the end of the Shenandoah National Park drew near.

Finally we got to the end of the park, and hiked on. Thinking we had nothing but flat terrain and descents ahead of us, we trekked on happily. We could see a bit of the town of Front Royal off in the distance, and we were glad that we did not need to resupply there.

It got a little warmer and I was forced to take off my long johns. I had been walking in them until almost noon because I did not want to stop to take them off. Time was of the essence, but Swivel and Spiral were not so rushed as to pass up on investigating a turtle standing up at the fence on two legs.

After passing a small road we were surprised by a climb up to the top of a miniature mountain. I felt a little bad that I had proclaimed there to be no more climbs, but only a little. From the top we rode switchbacks down to the bottom, where we met my dad.

He took us to Spelunker's, a place in Front Royal selling "cave burgers" and ice cream. I had a Peach Shortbread milkshake, which was fantastic. Surprised by the time, we rushed off to make a special pickup.

The drive was not short, but it was on the way home anyway. Eventually we arrived at Swift Run Gap on US 33, where we found Lakeland and Metro North waiting in the median of the park entrance road. They were on time, but we were fifteen minutes late. Reunited, we all squeezed into the car and went to Charlottesville. On the way we even sang Happy Birthday to my grandma, who was 80 years old.

In Charlottesville we all took showers before heading to Walmart and Sam's Club. I made the mistake of taking us there before dinner, but no one held a grudge despite their enormous food purchases. Across the road we hit Domino's and most of us carried out large three-topping pizzas for only eight bucks.

Back at the house, we gorged on pizza and other snacks, then everyone found a spot to sleep. We barely had enough beds and couches for everyone, for which I was grateful. It had been a decent day on the trail and a terrific afternoon with friends.