---
author_profile: true
date: 02-05-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/03
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/02
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/01
title: May 2
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Metro North woke up early and started applying for jobs on the computer. I moved from the floor to the couch and tried to rest more. One by one, everyone got up. Finally, we all headed out the door and went into town for Bodo's Bagels, a local favorite. I think that everyone enjoyed breakfast and seeing a tiny bit more of Charlottesville.

We went back home and very slowly prepared to leave. I was not in a rush, and neither was Metro North. Lakeland seemed to be the only one who really wanted to hit the trail as soon as possible, and he gently nudged us to pack up and get ready to leave.

After a quick errand to Dick's Sporting Goods for Superfeet insoles, we packed ourselves into the car and left. We decided to stop at Subway, but then got sidetracked by the Dairy Queen right across the parking lot. It was good to have one last treat.

The trip to Swift Run Gap was quick, and soon Lakeland and Metro North were off. I was sorry to see them go, but was glad to have invited them to the house. We continued on and I slept in the car during the drive to our starting point near Linden, VA. This drive took a bit longer, and we soon realized that we were not going to do too many miles before dark.

We arrived and my dad saw us off. The hike was a bit steep at first, but then leveled off and gradually descended until we arrived at Dick's Dome, a shelter just off of the trail. We met Paw Burt there, who I had met before at least once.

The shelter was a little odd, but we fit in just fine and got ready for bed. I attempted to catch up on my journal a bit, but was constantly distracted and talking with Spiral and Swivel. After dark we slept well.