---
author_profile: true
date: 06-05-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/07
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/06
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/05
title: May 6
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Spiral, Swivel and I all wanted to do the half gallon challenge at Pine Grove Furnace State Park if we could. Since they were only open from eleven in the morning until four in the afternoon, we decided to do an easy hike to the Toms Run Shelters, then go do the challenge the next day.

They left before me, and I stayed behind to work on my journal. I got a couple of entries done, then left. I stopped periodically to do another entry, but soon decided I had better catch up with my friends.

It took me the rest of the morning to find them. As I was walking through Caledonia State Park, enviously watching families grilling burgers and hot dogs for their Sunday lunch, I found them taking a long lunch break at one of the pavilions. I sat down and we hung out for a bit.

Swivel was looking over the description of the Appalachian Trail Museum and noted that the hours were confusing. I called them, and sure enough they would be closed until the next weekend. Peeved that we wouldn't get to see the museum, we opted to hike farther than we originally planned, since apparently nothing would be open at the state park the next day anyway.

The terrain was just a lot of woods with small hills here and there. We crossed many small roads and passed a few shelters and interesting cabins, making good time. Our plan was to get to the state park after everyone was gone and sleep in a picnic shelter, just like we did at the Washington Monument.

I did a journal entry or two every once in a while, leap frogging Spiral and Swivel. Darkness approached and we started hiking with our headlamps on. We continued on a short distance before arriving at the road to the state park, then started the short road walk to the park.

We were a little unsure of where we were going and I was concerned that someone would see us, but we avoided a lone car which drove right on by, and found a huge picnic pavilion close to the AT Museum. We cooked up dinner and went to bed, planning to get up and leave early so as to not attract any attention.