---
author_profile: true
date: 13-05-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/14
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/13
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/12
title: May 13
---
A nice early start made me happy to be hiking. I was especially looking forward to the end of the day, because my mom would be driving up from Virginia to see me since she had been away during most of my hike in Virginia. Also, it was Mother's Day! Perfect timing, not to mention that it looked like rain for the next day or two, meaning that I might be able to stay dry.

My daily walk in the woods went well, and then the path popped out onto a gravel service road which led me most of the way to a high vista above the Delaware River. Several day hikers and tourists had climbed up to that point, and as I slowly descended the steep mountain I encountered more and more families and large groups.

It took awhile to get to Delaware Water Gap, a small town right on the river. I stopped for an incredible milkshake and to charge my phone, then crossed the river, leaving Pennsylvania for good.

Glad to be done with one of the least fun states in my entire trek so far, I cruised over to a visitor center which incredibly had no running water. Discouraged but ready to hike, I started a gradual climb up to a ridge. Finally the tourists were completely behind me and I was alone up in the hills once again.

Soon I had to face the disappointing fact that the rocks were far from over. I bouldered around a pond, then dealt with the next stretch of rocky path for a few miles. The rocks had definitely decreased since Pennsylvania, but I still had to watch my step.

Seeing great views of a valley off to my right, I stayed on the ridge until I descended to Camp Road, where my mother was waiting for me. It was terrific to see her after weeks since her visit to Damascus, and after coordinating with her over the phone all day.

I rested for awhile, then realized that it would be best for me to do the few miles to the next road before ending my day. The weather had been fine all day, and I wanted to do as many miles as I could before the rains came.

Up and going, I borrowed my Mom's earbuds to listen to a little music to cheer me up. The last couple of miles flew by, and before I knew it I was in the car, driving back down the mountain to pick up Spiral and Swivel.

We arrived a tad late, but they were happy to see us. We all drove to East Stroudsburg, PA, where we ate, then headed for Walmart. You better believe that we got more than our fair share of ice cream and junk food, plus a vegetable tray (this was the first time shopping on the trail with my mom).

We headed to our hotel, checked in and flopped on the beds. We were exhausted and worn out from a rough week, and thus elated to take showers, take our shoes off, and watch some television. We didn't stay up too late, and slept quite well.