---
author_profile: true
date: 19-05-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/small/19-1.jpg
        title: AT Railroad Station
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/large/19-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/small/19-2.jpg
        title: New York Field
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/large/19-2.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/small/19-3.jpg
        title: NY - CT Border
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/large/19-3.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/20
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/19
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/18
title: May 19
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Moses got up pretty early, as did the other hikers. Perhaps I was just being lazy. Even so, I didn't leave too far behind Moses. I crossed some cool boardwalks over some serious swamp, then saw the Metro North station.

I really liked the look of the bench next to the railroad, and was impressed that a hiker could hop onto the train straight from the trail. I saw Moses' signature in the trail registers, and that I was getting closer to other thru-hikers like Yogi, Buckets, and Johnny Utah.

Crossing into Connecticut, I went across a road and then hit Ten Mile River, which was fun. I ran into Moses and we hiked together for a few miles. The whole day I was anticipating getting into Kent to get some food. But that would not be until the end of the day.

The nice thing about covering a lot of ground before town is that I knew I would not have far to go afterwards, so I would know exactly how much time I would have in town. However, thinking about getting to town all day caused me to worry needlessly.

When I finally got to the road to Kent, I had to walk well over a mile to the grocery store because I could not get a ride. Kent is a very expensive town, and while the buildings are fancy, it really wasn't a useful place for a hungry hiker.

The people didn't particularly care to see me in their stores or out on their sidewalks, and the food was really expensive. Everything I looked at was twice the price I would pay at Walmart or a real grocery store. I bought the bare necessities and a little junk food.

I was able to make it to the library briefly and to hang out near the outfitter, which I'm sure had little for hikers. Eventually leaving town, I was disappointed to have to walk back to the trail as well. Overall my day felt ruined by a super expensive town that I had thought was going to be a welcome break from the trail. Instead I now needed real food more than ever.

The trail to the shelter was fine except for some ridiculous rock ledges which I had to carefully descend. From there I walked on a road for a long, long time. Finally reaching the shelter, I saw Moses, Johnny Utah and Buckets, though the last two were camping so that they could smoke.

The shelter was small but we made do. I didn't really feel like cooking dinner, but I snacked on peanut butter and crackers, then went to bed.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}