---
author_profile: true
date: 24-05-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/25
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/24
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/23
title: May 24
---
I woke up to the sound of Tom and Phlegm getting up. I joined them and we went to a local diner for breakfast. The food was good, and Phlegm surprised us by picking up the check.

Phlegm hit the trail soon after breakfast, and I got ready as well. Then I just sat on the couch. Tom and I talked a bunch about all the crazy people he has seen and the odd things that have occurred at his house when hikers stay there.

Before I knew it we were thinking of lunch, and I offered to buy for Tom since he had been so gracious already. We got in the car and pulled out, only to see Spiral and Swivel walking down the sidewalk toward us.

We waited for them, and we all went to lunch. We had a good time. It was nice to be reunited with my friends from miles past. They marveled at Tom's incredible generosity as well, and we all enjoyed ourselves back at his house.

We got incredible amounts of food and ice cream at the Price Chopper. They were selling Friendly's for two bucks apiece. To top it all off, I went to a local tailor and had my pack sewn up so that the hip belt would work permanently. Tom had to haggle the guy on the time to do the job, which I was grateful for. We had a nice evening together and I finally retired late at night. I slept well after a full zero day at Tom's house.