---
author_profile: true
date: 25-05-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/may/26
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/may/25
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/may/24
title: May 25
---
As before, I was not the first to wake up at the Levardi house. My bed was a little too comfortable and I had gone to sleep a little too late to make me an early riser that day. Breakfast was great, and Spiral, Swivel and I all got our packs in order.

I was not quite ready to leave, however. Out of the goodness of my heart I felt that Spiral and Swivel deserved a full zero day at Tom's house as well. In order to not be rude I would make a tough sacrifice and stay as well.

The other two were ready to go but sitting around in the living room. I got The Big Lebowski playing, which effectively killed all efforts to begin hiking. It was a good movie which I had only seen parts of previously.

During the movie and afterwards we all had ice cream. I myself probably ate a little more than the others. The rest of the day was a blur. Ice cream was mixed in with a few small tasks and lots of interesting conversations with Tom.

A section hiker showed up and we all had a nice dinner on the picnic table outside, cooked up by Tom, of course. Afterwards we watched Blazing Saddles while eating ice cream! Over the past couple of days I had eaten about two gallons. The movie was funny, and definitely a different type of comedy in comparison to most modern comedies.

The evening ended before I knew it. All the ice cream had made me sleepy, and I went to bed ready to rest. I had just accomplished my first double zero since Florida. It felt great, but I had turned hypocrite since I had told Metro North that "the only kind of double zero I do has a one in front of it" just a month before.