---
author_profile: true
date: 27-05-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/small/27-1.jpg
        title: Camouflaged Toad
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/large/27-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/small/27-2.jpg
        title: Vermont Beaver Pond
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/large/27-2.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/small/27-3.jpg
        title: Vermont Beaver Pond Sunset
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/may/large/27-3.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/28
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/27
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/26
title: May 27
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Spiral and Swivel left the shelter first while I stayed behind to journal. After doing a few entries I went ahead and started hiking, not wanting to fall too far behind.

When I reached Congdon Shelter there was a hiker there who had apparently met me before. I didn't remember him, but that was probably because he was just one of hundreds of retired guys turned section hiker. I stopped to do a journal entry, then moved on.

Immediately I was faced with a huge beaver pond where the trail used to be. Thankfully others had skirted around the edge, and I used their makeshift path. The rest of the trail down to the highway was not unique.

I crossed the road to Bennington and passed a few people out for the day as I started climbing. The climb took a long time, and I stopped a few times, using my journal as an excuse to take a break from the monotony.

Finally I reached a decent water source and refilled while the black flies and mosquitoes attacked with full force. I replied with ninety-eight percent DEET, which worked decently.

At a shelter I met a woman from Boston out for the weekend with her husband. She had driven across Canada, and told me of her time in Newfoundland, as well as some mystical drink called Screech. Spiral and Swivel showed up and we all enjoyed a small break, but also noticed that the mosquitoes and black flies were totally out of control.

We got going again and I rushed on to get to our shelter for the night. I moved quickly, fueled by thoughts of Newfoundland. I arrived before dark and did my normal routine. Spiral and Swivel got there just before headlamps were required and had their own dinner.

We had bitten off a small piece of Vermont and were ready for bed. I had been able to avoid the black flies for the most part, but Swivel was not as lucky. The flies must have just liked her more. We all tried to rest up for the next day.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}