---
author_profile: true
date: 01-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/02
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/01
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/30
title: July 1
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

When I woke up I didn't feel too good. I had stopped taking the medicine I had picked up in Fort Fairfield, thinking it was hurting my stomach. Now my stomach still felt bad and the diarrhea was back. I very slowly packed up my things then went to the road.

I decided that the suspect water I had picked up back at the border must have given me Giardia, and that I needed to get a prescription. I also just felt terrible in general, so I planned to hitch to a hospital.

The road had alarmingly few cars driving on it. I was a bit timid in my first few attempts to hitch a ride, but soon was waving both arms at passing cars. I thought this would signal passing drivers that I was not merely looking for a ride but needed help. Apparently it was not enough. I couldn't pass judgment on all of New Brunswick, but I not impressed by the lack of compassion displayed.

After hours, I got a ride to the Perth-Andover hospital. There I mostly sat around until a doctor asked me what the problem was. I explained that I had Giardia, and he did no real tests at all, but did give me a prescription and a few pills to start me off. I was elated to learn the treatment would only last a week.

From the lobby I got in touch with Bill Miller, the only trail angel I knew of in Canada, who happened to live in Nictau, an hour or two North of Perth-Andover. He happened to be visiting his mother at the hospital, so we planned to meet there. I sat and watched the Euro 2012 soccer final and the televised festivities for Canada Day. I was doing pretty well considering that I was sick.

Bill showed up and took me back to Nictau. It was a bit of a drive but I was grateful for a place to recover. Bill was very gracious and loved to talk with me about various topics. I enjoyed the rest of the evening there, had a small dinner, then went to bed in an upstairs bedroom.