---
author_profile: true
date: 02-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/03
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/02
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/01
title: July 2
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I slept in, then had breakfast with Mr. Miller. He made some great pancakes, though of course I couldn't eat as much as normal. I noticed that my new medicine had stopped my nausea and diarrhea, though I still wasn't hungry.

The day was spent hanging out at the house and talking with my gracious host. He had an incredibly large music collection as well as many nice photos, which he took himself. We also talked a lot about Fiddles on the Tobique.

Fiddles on the Tobique is an event Bill started decades ago with a couple canoes and a lone fiddle. Now the annual event is huge. Thousands of people come from all over Canada and the world to participate in the world's largest fiddles-in-boats orchestra ever.

It all sounds quite interesting, and Bill loved to talk about it since he enjoys fiddle music and builds fine canoes for a living. I saw many photos of the event and listened to some fiddle music, which was nice although a bit folksy, which is not really my style.

We had dinner and eventually I retired to bed. I probably should have done a few journal entries, but never got around to it. In any case, I felt a little better at the end of the day.