---
author_profile: true
date: 06-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/07
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/06
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/05
title: July 6
---
I got up early, at least compared to the other campers, and got ready to go. I was ready to hike and a little excited. The plan was to get to Amqui, then take a bus to Montreal. My flight to San Francisco was not departing for a few days, so I would have time to see Montreal.

The only problem was that I couldn't find the trail. After about an hour of walking around I figured out that the trail actually goes through the campground, right past my refuge and into the woods. I had not noticed this the night before.

Once on the trail, I found it to be pretty bad. There were few to no markings, and I didn't know if I was still on the trail or not since it was just a network of jeep trails. Soon enough I emerged from the woods and waded through tall wet grass to get to the road walking portion of the day, which lasted for a few miles.

Then the trail followed along the Causapscal river, which was nice. After some time I was surprised to find a refuge at Les Chutes. It had not been mentioned on any of the trail signs I had seen. Continuing on, I came to a building for a wildlife reserve, and used the restroom before asking a couple of workers for directions to the trail, which was not marked too well (surprise!).

The trail traversed the woods and a few marshy areas before coming to Mt. Horeb, which had a privy and a picnic table overlooking a grand view. I followed the trail into the woods, then out to a dirt road, the other side of which was totally clear-cut.

I was getting very frustrated with the trail. I just wanted to get to Amqui and get off the trail for awhile, and now I was walking roads trying to find the trail. After walking in a circle I just bushwhacked down the steep mountainside. In the process I did an incredible cartwheel fall but got up uninjured. I furiously bushwhacked down to the road, losing my spork and a bunch of granola bars in the process.

From there I walked the highway to Amqui. I attempted somewhat successfully to communicate with the clerks at the store selling bus tickets, then walked on to the grocery store. It was a nice large store, which I appreciated.

With my junk food in hand, I marched on down the road. It was miles to the campground, but I made it there eventually. I picked up a package there with normal clothes to wear and a copy of Bill Bryson's A Walk in the Woods. I spent the night at the hiker refuge there writing journal entries and reading my book with plenty of junk food to reward a mentally tough day.