---
author_profile: true
date: 07-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/08
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/07
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/06
title: July 7
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

It rained during the night. The metal roof of the refuge did not exactly decrease the noise of the rainstorm as it reflected the raindrops loudly. In the morning I got up and took a shower before getting my things ready and leaving the campground.

I had to walk back to the bus stop, which was on the far end of town. It took an hour or two but I made it. On the way I stopped outside the grocery store to charge my iPhone. Arriving at the bus stop, I bought a ticket for the bus as it pulled up, and got on for my nice long ride to Montreal.

On the bus I read my book and used my iPhone to play games, chat, and do all sorts of things not related to writing journal entries. I didn't have any real problem with the length of the trip. I was watching the kilometers fly by from the bus window, which was much faster than walking them.

We switched buses a couple of times, and finally arrived in Montreal in the evening. I had arranged to go to Catwoman's house, so I started to head that way. I had never met Catwoman, but I knew of her. Dropout had mentioned her on the trail, and she had been hiking with Parkside before she had to return to Montreal. In fact, she and Parkside had begun dating on the trail, making his accident very sad news for her especially.

This was the only real thing on my mind as I got on the metro subway with some difficulty and rode the seven or eight stops to the closest station to her house. From there I walked a few blocks and I was there.

It was nice to meet her as well as some friends she had over for a dinner party to enjoy her new place. Everyone knew English and one of her friends had a trail name, Stumper, and had hiked the AT as well as the Pacific Crest Trail.

We talked and I had some great food. After awhile her guests left and I spread my sleeping pad out on the floor. It felt good to be in Montreal.