---
author_profile: true
date: 09-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/10
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/09
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/08
title: July 9
---
It was a lazy day at Catwoman's house for me. After breakfast we went out and got her some stools for her kitchen, and then went to Mountain Co-Op to look for a new pack for her and a spork for me.

They had the exact one I had bought from REI! Of course, Mountain Co-Op is pretty much a Canadian REI so I shouldn't have been too surprised. Catwoman picked out a small thirty-five liter pack for her return to the Appalachian Trail in a few days. I was quite impressed with its small size.

In the afternoon Catwoman had lunch with a friend while I built her stools, read my book, and wrote a few journal entries. I could not stop thinking about Parkside's accident.

I had been the last person to sleep at Pierce Pond before Parkside drowned there. If I had not left the Stratton Motel so early, I might have done fewer miles each day and been there at the time he went for a swim. This was all a bunch of self-centered thinking, but I couldn't help wishing I had been there at the time so that I would have had a chance to dive into the pond when he called for help. I have no doubt that those there did everything that could be done, but I just wish I had been there.

After awhile Catwoman's friend went home, she got her pack ready to hit the trail, and we watched Law-Abiding Citizen, which was a good movie. Catwoman's roommate showed up after a few days away, and said she didn't mind if I spent the night there. We had dinner and eventually went to bed.