---
author_profile: true
date: 10-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/11
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/10
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/09
title: July 10
---
In the morning I packed up my things and got ready to leave. Catwoman had to go to work, so I would be hanging out in Montreal all day. I thanked her for everything, then headed out into the city.

I decided soon to use the Bixi to get around. The Bixi is a cool shared bicycle program in Montreal involving hundreds of docks of bikes placed all over the city. Using a credit card, I could take a bike out for up to thirty minutes at no charge other than a fee for the first twenty-four hours of using the program.

It was a little difficult to bike with my backpack and a duffel bag, but slowly I made my way down to a grocery store and got some food. I hung out in parks during the morning and snacked on my food while slowly making my way towards Old Montreal, where Stumper lived.

Stumper had agreed to hold on to a few things I couldn't take on the airplane, so I found his apartment building and dropped my stuff off, talking briefly with him. After that I felt much lighter with just my backpack, and decided to go into the Underground City, a network of complexes underneath Old Montreal.

The Underground City is basically a bunch of shopping malls connected by passageways, all underground. I took a long video of a fountain exhibit and moved on to the next complex after finally finding the connection. I attempted a thru-hike of the Underground City, but stopped to charge my phone and use the internet in a food court area.

After awhile I decided it might be time to start making my way towards the airport. My flight was early the next morning, so I would just stay at the airport for the night. I took the Bixi to the nearest bike rack to the airport, which is not close at all, then started walking.

It was miles to the airport, but I had time and figured a little extra walking might serve as good penance for whatever few steps I had skipped on the trail. I was a little concerned that it would be difficult to walk the last portion to the terminal, but found a route through a rail terminal and over to the airport without too much trouble.

The airport was not busy at night, and I found others already sleeping on the benches. I picked out a good spot and lay down. I soon decided no one would mind if I used my sleeping bag, so I got out my stuff and slept fairly well for a few hours.