---
author_profile: true
date: 14-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/15
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/14
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/13
title: July 14
---
It was the day of the wedding. We all went over to Little Louie's across the street for breakfast and saw the rest of the family there. Breakfast was great once again and afterwards we got ready for the ceremony.

The wedding was up on a mountain on the West side of the bay, so we drove there in a caravan from Point Richmond. It took awhile to get there, and the road up the mountain was steep and winding, but we made it. There was a bit of walking to do to get to the amphitheater, but not too much.

Navied's sister officiated the wedding, and did a wonderful job. She showed us how well Navied and Emelie fit together, which we had kind of already figured out. After the short ceremony we had some more good food and hung out until it was time to take a few pictures and head back to Point Richmond.

There was a party at The Baltic, a local pub, so we went over there and watched many of the family and guests dancing and playing music. My beard and I weren't much for dancing ourselves, but it was interesting to watch the others. After awhile we headed out to a patio and talked amongst ourselves, and got to chat with the bride and groom as well.

The night went on for some time, but finally we said our goodbyes and went back to our hotel room. The next day I would be leaving in the morning. It had been great to see the family and especially to see my cousin Emelie's wedding, but I was also starting to think of the trail. I went to bed planning on getting up early for my flight and to switch out a few pieces of gear.