---
author_profile: true
date: 15-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/16
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/15
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/july/14
title: July 15
---
I woke up very early at the hotel and started getting ready to leave. I switched out my socks for new pairs, got the correct pair of long underwear since I had been carrying a micro weight pair instead of mid-weight, and most importantly, got some Aqua Mira to treat my drinking water.

We left early and headed across the bay to the airport. On the way we stopped by a grocery store and I picked up some food for the day, since airport food is insanely expensive. Before long we were at the airport and saying goodbye. It had been good to see my family, but I was ready to get back to Canada.

I went through the normal rigamarole of checking in and getting through security, then sat around at the gate. iPhones are great for passing the time if you have to sit and wait for the plane.

This time I only had two planes to catch, but I still arrived in Montreal in the evening since I was moving through four time zones. I took my time at the airport and contemplated sleeping on my trusty row of seats, but decided to walk towards Montreal since I had time.

It grew dark and I grew tired of walking after awhile. I stopped at a park right next to the street and lay down on a hill just above the occasional traffic. After awhile the young folks hanging out in the park left and I went to sleep. I woke up to rain and quickly grabbed my stuff and walked back to a different park with a roofed area. I rested there for the few remaining hours of darkness.