---
author_profile: true
date: 20-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/21
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/20
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/19
title: July 20
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Stephanie dropped me off before going to work at the St. Quentin hospital. I was impressed to learn that she was a doctor there. I walked the road towards the town, and accidentally missed the turn onto the ATV trail heading North. After awhile I found it hiding next to a bridge with a single IAT blaze on the back of a stop sign.

I walked the ATV trail the rest of the day. I was beginning to feel that I was going to complete this incredibly dull, drab, boring, and dull, dull, dull section of trail. The only thing to do was just keep walking. I kept expecting the mosquitoes to attack, but they held off for the most part.

It took awhile to get to Kedgwick. When I arrived I found that there wasn't too much there, which I expected. I pressed on and was doing well until the trail disappeared at the highway after Kedgwick. I looked around, but couldn't find it. I texted my navigation trail angels and they indicated that the trail was somewhere behind a big lot I was sitting in.

I wandered back through the lot, onto the property of some sort of agricultural industry, and back further. Finally I found the ATV trail. I was not impressed with the IAT, but I kept walking north.

I passed Whites Brook, where I had caught a ride to Quebec before. I kept going. There was still daylight left, and I wanted to get to the end of the ATV trail. As darkness approached I saw the highway ahead. There was enough room next to the trail for my sleeping pad, so I laid it out right there. I felt just fine in my nice cozy sleeping bag though it was cold outside. I cooked dinner and went to bed a little late.