---
author_profile: true
date: 28-07-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/july/small/28-1.jpg
        title: Caribou on the Boardwalk
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/july/large/28-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/july/small/28-2.jpg
        title: Chic Chocs from Mt. Jacques-Cartier
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/july/large/28-2.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/july/small/28-3.jpg
        title: Chic Chocs Wildlife Reserve
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/july/large/28-3.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/29
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/28
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/july/27
title: July 28
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I was not in a hurry in the morning. I only planned to do about half of a normal day in order to sleep in a refuge that night. Also, I was told that I wasn't supposed to summit Mt. Jacques-Cartier in the early morning because of caribou on top of the mountain.

The other hikers shared breakfast with me, and I did more journal entries. They left and I stuck around, making me feel a little lazy, though I could feel good about all the journalling I was doing. Finally I packed up and started towards the mountain.

Before long I ran right into a caribou on the trail. He was not afraid of me at all, and walked towards me on the wooden planks. As I took a video of this rare creature he proceeded to show me how he felt about the IAT by peeing right on the trail. I concurred.

The climb up to the summit was not too difficult. At the top I enjoyed the building there and even got some cell service, a first since Mont Logan. Another hiker showed me caribou in the distance with his binoculars. I did a journal entry or two, but packed up as I saw hikers coming up to the summit from the other direction.

I talked with the folks I had seen at La Paruline, and descended from the windy mountain, past the caribou. It took awhile, but I got down to the road where a bus drops off lots of hikers to climb the mountain, and started walking the road out of the park.

The trail went into the woods, and I was worried that I was going to have another Matane Reserve experience. Thankfully the trail was reasonable and I made it out to a series of old mountain roads, which eventually led to the refuge. I arrived there and found two hikers asleep in their bunks, so I got my own and laid down as well.

After awhile I met the other hikers, though they preferred to keep to themselves mostly. They did give me another expensive backpacking meal, which I was grateful for, though I really didn't need it. I was out of the national park and would be arriving on the coast the next day. I had dinner and went to bed after a fairly easy day.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}