---
author_profile: true
date: 09-02-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/10
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/09
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/08
title: February 9
---
I was not up as early as I had hoped to be. I couldn't help it, I was sleeping in the camper again and it was heavenly. Finally I got up and took a nice hot shower, and packed up my stuff. Karen made eggs and oatmeal again, which was delicious. Boy I was going to miss that on the trail.

Finally I got going and made it out of the Holton Creek area, leaving the Suwannee for awhile. I stopped briefly at Gibson Park, then continued on to a small road walk.

The route for the day took me generally along the Suwannee River again, though I could not always see it. I re-crossed Interstate 10 and saw some of the Withlacoochee River as well. It was difficult to keep track of all of the landmarks because the trail never stays alongside the rivers for too long.

My plan was to get to the long roadwalk after Mills Creek Camp by night so that I could tackle that immediately. I was slightly delayed when I realized the heel of my right shoe was becoming separated and I attempted to Krazy Glue it with not much success.

As I walked River Road it got dark, and I used my flashlight to get to Mills Creek Camp slowly but successfully. The terrain was not that great at times, covering tracks that had been dug up by machinery.

When I made it there I opted to stay put for the night, as I didn't feel like finding my way out to the road. I set up my tarp successfully, and though I was on a bit of an incline, was able to use one of my SitLite pads to balance myself for a restful night.