---
author_profile: true
date: 22-02-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/23
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/22
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/21
title: February 22
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

After a great tarp setup, I slept great. I woke up refreshed and ready to walk, but found myself a little off of the trail, which some geniuses totally clear cut for over a mile. To be fair, there had been a signal for an alternate route, but I didn't know why at the time...

Finally back on the trail after traversing forest roads, I passed over many nice creeks. The water was so clear, I didn't have any reservations drinking from them. I was loving it after being around the dark titi swamp water for so long.

The trail ran next to one of the main creeks, I believe Lafayette. The area was very muddy at times, and I ran off several groups of pigs. A little slowed down but not discouraged, I continued on and only got a foot wet once near the end of the problematic area.

The trail ran through some wonderful rolling hills before hitting the highway in the middle of a construction zone. As I moved through an SUV drove my way and honked. I tried to escape, thinking it was a perturbed construction worker, only to find that it was Stumpknocker. He was headed into the area I had just come from. We chatted for a couple of minutes, but I had to hit the road quickly.

The road walk would have been a little easier if the data book had not directed me to walk underneath the power lines. Several creeks and ponds cross the lines, and the only way to stay dry is to get on the road, which is faster walking anyway. Arriving at Eglin Air Force Base, I talked to another hiker, then headed in.

A sign mentioned a couple of creeks in the area and a possible alternate route. The hiker had mentioned them too. It wasn't until I arrived at the creek bank that the meaning of the word 'ford' hit me. And not the union-hampered automobiles.

I took my time taking off my socks and shoes, crossed the creek, then put them back on. I had been worried about time and I was sure I wasn't going to make Bull Camp now. The next creek that I came to did not need to be forded, as it had Demon Bridge, a split tree trunk.

Checking the time, I decided to go for Bull Campsite anyway. I did some of the only running that I have done on the trek, and ever want to do. It was tiring and I got very sweaty, but it got me a lot closer to the camp as darkness approached.

The data book was off on the distance to the camp, which caused me a lot of confusion. I called up a couple of trail angels for support from the computer as I trudged on in near pitch black darkness. Finally I arrived and hit the sack.