---
author_profile: true
date: 24-02-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/february/25
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/february/24
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/february/23
title: February 24
---
Though I was stealth camping I could not get myself up very early to leave. Once on the road, the walk followed the road for the whole morning, passing defunct small stores in negligible towns, and country homes.

I got a picture of an awesome sculpture on a farm, and stopped briefly at the store in Holt. On the road again with rain always threatening, I worked towards Harold, where the two different paths to the Northern Termini of the Florida Trail split.

Strong winds and dark skies followed me, and I was sure that I was going to have to don my rain gear. Picking up the pace, I reached the store in Harold without any real rain hitting. I bought some junk food, chatted with the owner and a couple of state forest workers, and then headed North once the storm seemed to blow over without ever hitting.

I was very excited to be on the last section in the data book. So much so that my spirits carried me through when someone clear cut the trail. The forest was nice, and the rains stayed away in the early afternoon.

I saw the Blackwater River and stopped at the picnic area to use the restroom. While under the shelter, real rain hit but stopped within minutes. Feeling very lucky, I pressed on.

Traveling alongside the river and Juniper Creek, I passed through a few muddy areas. I made it to the Juniper Creek Shelter with plenty of time before sundown.

It felt great to be at the shelter and to read the logs from hikers dating back to years ago. I felt a bit nostalgic, knowing it would probably be my last night in Florida. A little rain hit in the night, but I was high and dry.