---
author_profile: true
date: 26-02-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/february/small/26-1.jpg
        title: Walking US 29
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/february/large/26-1.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/27
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/26
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/25
title: February 26
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I left my spot early in the morning and started to make my way North, albeit slowly, since I had to follow small dirt roads. Most of the time the road would not have a sign until I got to the point at which I would turn off.

I was surprised to see a store in Bradley, but it had been closed for almost a year. There was not too much to see in the Conecuh National Forest, at least not from the road. It pretty much just looked like a swampy forest, similar to many of the areas that I had already traversed.

Upon arriving at the road I grew up driving on (far north from southern Alabama), U.S. 29, I decided that I could make it to evening church in Andalusia. Putting on some music helped the miles and the day to go by faster.

As I walked towards Andalusia, I felt myself going up and down hills. This was a sensation that I was just becoming accustomed to since Eglin Air Force Base. The miles on the first day of the Alabama Roadwalk went by without too much pain, and before I knew it I was passing through Carolina, a small town just south of Andalusia.

Reaching the outskirts of Andalusia, I grabbed some food on a small detour before getting to the church, right on time. The service was good, and afterwards I met the minister and several others. The minister let me stay with him, his wife, and their newborn.

We watched Flywheel, an interesting movie made by the same folks who did Facing the Giants and Courageous.

I got to take a shower, wash some clothes, and stay off of my feet. To Daniel and the whole Roberts family, thank you for taking such good care of me. I know we will meet again.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}