---
author_profile: true
date: 29-02-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/01
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/29
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/28
title: February 29
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

My leap day hike started pretty early. I was up and walking towards Montgomery, where I planned to visit a church next to Faulkner University.

The road walk up to Montgomery was long. I did over twenty five miles just to get to the very southern edge. From there I walked over a bridge which has been closed to traffic for over two years. It is safe to walk on, and I couldn't even see any damage to the supports.

Walking up through a South Montgomery residential neighborhood was interesting, but not too dangerous. I walked around Montgomery to the East, where I had my iPhone screen repaired from an accidental drop back at Holton Creek.

This was my first break of the day and I was not thrilled about having to continue, but I pressed North. Making as many stops for food as time would permit, I made the service just in time, and got to meet a few nice folks.

I met Leon and his wife, who kindly took me back to their home with them. I got a shower and got to sleep in a little man-cave Leon had in the back yard, full of Alabama Crimson Tide gear.

It had been a very long day on the road, but I slept fairly well in the recliner after finally turning off the television late at night. Civilization does have its benefits.