---
author_profile: true
date: 03-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/04
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/03
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/02
title: August 3
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I woke up. I had spent the night at Cap Gaspe. Though it was odd, I didn't really feel like hanging out there for too long. It was a little chilly and windy, and I was ready to go catch my bus to get out of Quebec.

The bus left Cap-aux-Os at one in the afternoon. I didn't mind hitching there, but the good people of Quebec did. No one picked me up, though we were all going the same direction. Maybe I was just getting more irritable, but I had become more and more frustrated with the locals I met on the road the farther I got into this hike.

It took awhile, but I eventually arrived in Cap-aux-Os and got some groceries for the road. I hung out for awhile, then caught the bus. It felt good to be riding in a bus and not walking.

I changed buses in the town of Gaspe, then we rode down the east coast of Gaspesie, taking forever as we stopped at every little hamlet with a person who was looking to get the heck out of there. I occasionally picked up some food from a store, and kept myself entertained as we rode on. Night came and we traveled back through Matapedia, Causapscal, and Amqui. I really had been in Quebec for too long.

In Rivière-du-Loup I found out I had to wait for hours for my next bus to arrive. I dejectedly sat down, but was happy to meet a couple of English guys out for a year-long adventure in Canada. They were planning on possibly going north to Yellowknife (which is way up in the Northwest Territory), and also to the top of Newfoundland, just like me.

This night did not end in a sleeping bag. It didn't really end at all. It just found me slumped in a waiting room chair in a bus terminal.