---
author_profile: true
date: 05-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/06
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/05
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/04
title: August 5
---
I got up and got going in the morning, hoping I could beat the mosquitoes out of bed. The trail took me through a small place called Kinkora and then eventually east towards Charlottetown.

What amazed me about places like Kinkora and Albany was that they had post offices, yet Bill Miller in Nictau has to drive for more than half an hour to go to the post office in Plaster Rock.

I was loving the easiness of the trail. It was just straight fine gravel trail, and I found that I could make quite good time. The mosquitoes were not bad, though a few came out to strike every once in awhile. I listened to music for a large portion of the day just to help the time go faster.

Prince Edward Island is nice, but there is only so much to be seen from the trail. That being said, it was a great change to be out of the bushes and out into the open countryside.

I hiked fast and arrived in Charlottetown in the early evening. Matt and Stephanie had driven through during their vacation and left my pants at a convenience store, so I picked those up on my way to a church I wanted to attend.

The church apparently didn't have a Sunday evening service though, so I went over to a Tim Horton's and used the WiFi network there to send photos and videos out to the rest of the world. I went to a grocery store late at night but it was closed, so I went back to the trail and was lucky enough to find another sheltered picnic table to sleep on. The trail was far from the lights and noise of town, so I got some decent rest.