---
author_profile: true
date: 08-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/09
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/08
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/07
title: August 8
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

In the morning I was ready to move on from the sad little community of Churchville. I packed up my tarp and the rest of my things and headed out, ready for a day with no rain. I knocked out the first few hours of roads without a thought, and soon passed a couple of small stores at an intersection. I decided it was too early for a break. I didn't realize that I wouldn't see another store that day.

I passed Park Falls, a small waterfall that supposedly had good camping spots. I didn't notice any. There really isn't too much to say about the road walk. I listened to music to help pass the time, and walked through the heat of the day.

At a bridge over a brook I stopped, rested in the shade, and got water. I had hoped to get water from a house, but couldn't make that plan work. I found that one of my Aqua Mira bottles was empty. I was worried, but figured that if I got Giardia again it might be a good enough excuse to go home.

Cooling my feet off in the brook was sufficient to cool me off. After awhile I continued on and started on the last portion of the day, making it out to the coast. At one point I talked to a man about my trip. He warned me about coyotes and concluded with, "I would say 'Have fun', but I don't see much fun in it". Normally I would disregard some local saying that, but he was basically right at this point. I was just following a ridiculous road walk, meandering about Nova Scotia.

I made it out to the coast, got some water from a friendly local (they exist!), and made it to a park before dark. I managed to stay undetected and slept on a sheltered picnic table, which was fast becoming one of my signature moves.