---
author_profile: true
date: 09-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/small/9-1.jpg
        title: Marsh Lane Across Peninsula
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/large/9-1.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/10
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/09
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/08
title: August 9
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

In the morning I wasn't up too quickly. I was enjoying my somewhat secluded spot and didn't want to leave so soon. But soon, a group of women walking in a loop around the park changed my mind and I packed up and left.

Walking along the coast was nice, but the road didn't always stay within view of the water. It was a little frustrating to pass by roads leading straight to Antigonish, my destination, and to keep going the wrong way. I think I may have mentioned this before, but the road walk in Nova Scotia is bogus.

I soon made my way over to the opposite coast of the peninsula, and started on the long walk south towards Antigonish. I did a good job of steadily and quickly making my way south and was happy to stop in at the Mini-Trail Community Center, which was outfitted with a library, computers, outlets, a bathroom, and a gift shop. I recharged my phone and ate a bit before continuing on.

Soon I was off on dirt roads which undoubtedly were less direct than the highway. I marched along and eventually started to reenter civilization on the outskirts of Antigonish.

In town, I stopped in at the library to use the computer. As evening set in, I went to the grocery store and got way too much snack food. I ate as much as I could, then followed a foot trail I found to a decent sleeping spot. It was probably technically in someone's back yard, but I was concealed by a small bush and had arrived late. I slept well and planned on leaving early in the morning.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}