---
author_profile: true
date: 10-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/11
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/10
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/09
title: August 10
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I actually woke up before my alarm in the morning, probably due to my instinct that I should be packed up and gone before anyone spotted me. I got my things together and walked off to find a bench to eat some more and get organized.

I checked out the local laundromat and found it out of business and behind on its taxes by about forty thousand dollars. I ended up going to the library to work on my journal.

My ankles had developed very raw skin. I wasn't sure if this was from having dirty socks or just being off the trail for a couple of weeks. In any case, I decided that I needed to catch up on my journal before finishing Nova Scotia, and that it would be good to rest my ankles at the same time.

I spent all day at the library. An incredible amount of journaling got done, though I was not quite fully caught up. My journal had been behind since basically the beginning of my trip, and at this point since my focus on hiking was waning I was happy to focus on something else. I had also done a lot of miles since leaving Quebec, so a day off was not a bad idea.

As the library got set to close, I went back to the grocery store and got a more sane amount of food. This time I headed down Church Street towards town and settled on a dark spot behind a church building. The noise of traffic on nearby streets died down soon, and I got to sleep.