---
author_profile: true
date: 14-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/15
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/14
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/13
title: August 14
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

It had been a bit of a mediocre night since my tarp was not really on level ground, but I got up in the morning and packed up as quickly as I could. I started out onto the road and immediately saw a car dealership and a road. I was glad to see some sign of civilization, but that did not last long.

I walked past mountains and through a small amount of mist. For the first time I caught a glimpse of the what the mountains looked like in Newfoundland. The most distinctive thing about them was their odd shape. Far from pointed or even domes in some cases, the mountains seemed to have large bowl-shaped chunks missing, and had several types of barren rock faces.

Soon I started walks through the Codroy Valley. This area would take the rest of the day. I eventually came across a convenience store whose washroom (a Canadian restroom) I took advantage of. I didn't stop for long though, as I continued out and kept up my continuous pace in order to put in a lot of kilometers for the day.

As it got later I realized that I needed more water. The first spot I tried gave me water with a lot of particles in it. I considered carrying it just in case I couldn't find anything else, but then decided that I wasn't going to risk Giardia again and dumped it out on the road. Finally I tried an unlikely spot and got clean spring water.

Soon after my lucky find I found a gravel lot just off of the road. I decided to stop there for the night, since camping spots were few and far between along the highway. I managed to set up my tarp in some finer gravel and went to bed.