---
author_profile: true
date: 15-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/16
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/15
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/14
title: August 15
---
I got up fairly early in the gravel lot and left. I was ready to hike. After putting in a lot of miles the previous day, I knew exactly the type of day I would be in for if I attempted a repeat performance, but I decided to try it anyway.

The first ten miles always go by fairly quickly. The previous day I had been fortunate enough to hit a couple of convenience stores. This day I would not find one until the late afternoon.

I walked and walked. I had to resort to music early on to keep myself going, and kept it up all day. By the time I did get to the convenience store I had my heart set on staying at a provincial park, which I was told was far ahead.

The plan had originally been to go to Stephenville, but I now realized that the trail from Stephenville was just going to be logging roads, which might be difficult to follow. Also, the park was past Stephenville. I opted to continue on the Trans-Canada Highway to Corner Brook.

It got dark and I was not quite to the park. I kept going, as there were no good spots to set up my tarp along the road. I listened to music again for the last few miles, and got to the park an hour or so after dark.

There were no spots to set up my tarp. I was little worried, as I thought it might rain. I just lay out my sleeping pad at an inner gate to the park and tried to sleep. There were several cars going in and out of the park late at night, which was quite a nuisance, but eventually it was totally dark and I got to sleep.