---
author_profile: true
date: 16-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/small/16-1.jpg
        title: Fields Near Barachois Park
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/large/16-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/small/16-2.jpg
        title: Welcome to Corner Brook
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/large/16-2.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/17
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/16
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/15
title: August 16
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

In the morning I packed up my things as a vehicle or two drove in and out of the park. I was annoyed that I couldn't find any more private place to sleep, but it was a new day now. I got going early in the morning, hoping to get to Corner Brook by the end of the day.

Because I was excited to get to Corner Brook, I thought of it a lot during the day, though at this point I had done this enough that I knew I would arrive in town eventually. My iPhone was almost out of battery power, so I didn't listen to too much music, and I didn't bother checking the map to see how many more kilometers I had to walk.

The advertisements for stores in Corner Brook started while I was still hours from town. Because of the silly Canadian system of not numbering highway exits by their mileage positions on the highway, I did not have a clear idea of how far away town was.

As I got closer I encountered construction which I walked through, as I had walked through many other construction sites. Finally I arrived in Corner Brook, and walked into McDonald's to charge my phone and rest my feet. I considered getting a room in town for the night, but everything was booked., being the height of tourist season.

Late at night I left the golden arches to find a spot to sleep. I managed to find a good spot among some trees close by, far behind a few houses. I was happy to have the best spot I had slept in for the last few nights, though I was worried that it might rain. Thankfully it did not, just as it had not rained the night before.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}