---
author_profile: true
date: 17-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/small/17-1.jpg
        title: Rocky Newfoundland Mountain
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/large/17-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/small/17-2.jpg
        title: Rare IAT Newfoundland Blaze
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/august/large/17-2.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/18
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/17
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/16
title: August 17
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

In the morning I slept in for a few minutes, enjoying every second in my sleeping bag, which I had been packing up early for the last few days. I then got up and made my way over to a big grocery store, which I found was not open until eight in the morning. I checked the nearby Walmart to find the same story there. I needed the food so I would have to wait.

At Tim Horton's I got a donut and waited for the store to open. When it did I got plenty of Nutella, though I had been eating a lot of it in Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. I also grabbed some chips, which I ate on my way out of town. It took a little time, but I got across a bridge out of town and saw a marking for the IAT heading off into the woods on a foot trail. I opted to follow the road instead.

Soon I was off of the pavement and onto the dirt road which led past a pipe where I got more water and past a few houses given a name as if they constituted a full-sized community. Soon a passing truck stopped and I met a couple of nice guys working on a government contract somewhere nearby. They had seen me walking on the highway, and gave me their phone numbers in case I needed help. They told me of a shelter for snowmobilers on the road ahead.

Soon it started to sprinkle, and I donned my rain gear. The rain was not heavy, but it did not stop that whole afternoon. After a couple of hours of rain I decided that I wanted to stop at the shelter, which was probably still a couple of hours ahead, according to the description I was given.

My shorts were soaked and my shirt was damp despite my rain jacket. I listened to music to keep me going, and also found IAT blazes at some point. Finally I found a sign proclaiming the shelter to be a kilometer away.

When I arrived I was happy to find The Warm Up Inn, an enclosed cabin with a wood stove. I took off my wet clothes and jumped into my sleeping bag. Later I attempted to start up the wood stove but didn't have enough kindling. I wrote in the log book, and admired the writing on the walls. People from Labrador had visited, which intrigued me.

I had some food and enjoyed my slightly early end to the day. After doing a journal entry or two I was too tired to even write. It got dark soon and I fell asleep indoors for the first time since Quebec.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}