---
author_profile: true
date: 19-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/august/20
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/august/19
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/august/18
title: August 19
---
Since I had decided not to attempt to out walk the rain, I was in a bit of a pickle, until I decided to just take a day off and stay in the hostel for another night. In the morning I walked to the store for more food, and across the street to the museum to pay for another night.

The rest of the day was spent in the hostel, surfing the web and watching television. Canadian television is very similar to American television, and I watched the news for awhile, then just surfed the web on my iPhone. It felt great to take a zero day in Newfoundland, a place in which I thought I would never take a day off.

The others went out and did some paddling in Gros Morne National Park, though they said they did get a little wet in the process. Though they thought it was odd of me to stay at the hostel all day, I enjoyed taking a day to just relax.

In the evening a couple from Nunavut came to stay at the hostel. I was highly intrigued, and talked to the man about life in Nunavut. He surprised me by mentioning that marijuana makes its way to that frozen tundra of a province, and that people sometimes commit suicide by going outside and sitting down. It is so cold there that a taxi will be used to travel a few hundred meters.

Finally it was time for bed and I retreated to my bunk and went to sleep. I had taken a day off and was now ready to take the rest of Newfoundland by storm.