---
author_profile: true
date: 22-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/23
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/22
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/21
title: August 22
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I enjoyed an undisturbed night, though I had slept close to the town. Some of my things had been blown around in the night by the ocean breeze. I found my rain gear in puddles in the porous rock slabs, dangerously close to the water's edge. I gathered everything up, thankful not to be missing anything.

I walked through the small village of River of Ponds before the stores were open. Stopping in at a store on the other side of town, I charged my phone for a few minutes before anyone came by to open up the store. I didn't want to buy anything because I would be arriving at Hawke's Bay before long.

The few hours to Hawke's Bay went by quickly, except for the last thirty minutes, at which point I was wondering when the town would ever appear. When I did start to arrive, I saw a couple of guys standing next to their car, perhaps waiting for me. Smirking, I wondered what nefarious business was at work here.

I was quite surprised to be greeted by the two English travelers I had met in the Rivière-du-Loop bus station. I knew that they had talked about coming to northern Newfoundland, but had no idea they would do it this quickly. Of course, it had been over two weeks since we had met. It was great to see them again, and we talked about our future plans and planned to meet up again.

When I arrived at the gas station in town, I stopped, charged my phone, and ate some junk food. I contemplated buying some fake peanut butter, but I really wanted Nutella, and if not that, then some real peanut butter. After awhile I was ready to leave. I checked out the disappointing Great Canadian Dollar Store, which had no Nutella.

I met my two English friends Rob and Dave again as they drove past. They had planned to stop at Port aux Choix, but had not found any good camping spots. Therefore they were going on to St. Anthony that night. I was somewhat envious, but grateful when Rob offered me some water, which I had needed. They went on and I continued the Viking Trail out to the coast, where wind took over the rest of my day.

As sunset arrived, I hoped for a spot out of the wind to camp in, but per usual, Newfoundland offered few options. I opted to head down to the rock slabs which suffice as the "beach," and lay down my sleeping pad. The wind was strong, but I hunkered down in my sleeping bag and it didn't bother me.