---
author_profile: true
date: 29-08-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/30
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/29
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/august/27
title: August 29
---
Waking up in my hotel bed, I realized that the day had arrived for me to leave Northern Newfoundland. I got up, packed up, then went out to get some laundry done and get ready for my flight.

I bought a shirt at a local store as a souvenir, and also just to wear, since the shirt I wore while hiking was almost permanently brown instead of white. The previous day I had apprehended a box to put some of my gear in, since hikers can't fly with about half of their gear.

Sadly it was a long way from the town of St. Anthony to the airport, so I decided to splurge for a cab and got a ride there with another passenger. When we arrived I paid the driver and went in to the incredible St. Anthony Airport.

The St. Anthony Airport is the only commercial airport in Northern Newfoundland, and it is quite small. I enjoyed it thoroughly, since it reminded me a little of the quaint airport at Key West. The difference, of course is that no major airline flies into St. Anthony, whose airport is in the middle of a much blander landscape than Key West.

The whole experience was a bit odd in that after going through security there was no bathroom or water fountain, and the passengers were all seated in a fairly small waiting room. Also, seats were assigned at the ticket counter rather than at the time of the ticket purchases.

Once on the actual plane, I found that there were already people on board who were en route from Labrador. The ride was odd in that we were served with hot towels and actual food! Before I knew it I was in St. John's. Picking up my baggage, I started walking into town, grabbed some groceries, then waited for my English friends at a tourist hostel.

It was great to see Rob and Dave again. We ate, then headed out to George Street, which supposedly has the highest percentage bar space in North America. We had a fantastic time, and even got to try some Screech. It was basically just bad rum, but I'm glad I can say that I tried it. Before I knew it it was well after midnight.