---
author_profile: true
date: 01-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/02
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/01
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/february/29
title: March 1
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Leon dropped me off at my starting point and I hiked North. Walking along the road in the city during rush hour was not a whole lot of fun, but I managed to make it to unused frontage roads.

Turning to head towards Wetumpka, I passed up some food hoping to stop a little later on. The rain had held off, but now started drizzling. Pretty soon it was coming down hard, and I put my rain gear on. Of course, this was the cue for the rain to slow down and eventually stop.

I stopped for a sub and continued up the hill into Wetumpka, where I picked up enough food to get me to Cave Springs, if necessary. After another stop my iPhone was recharged and I left town, heading North once again towards the start of the Pinhoti Trail.

My spirits were high because the road walk was nearly complete, though I still had a ways to go. I listened to music to help the time pass, and hit another Subway at an odd shopping strip in the middle of nowhere.

As darkness approached I turned off of US 231 and onto a county road. I planned to continue hiking past dark in order to get close to Flagg Mountain, but decided soon to camp just off of the road instead of doing the night walk.