---
author_profile: true
date: 06-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/07
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/06
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/05
title: March 6
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

My spot at the small camp was decent enough for some good sleep, which I needed. I left ready for a full day of hiking, at the end of which I would be meeting my friend Kevin who was coming down to see me.

After more of the same types of mountainside hiking that I had already seen, I found myself picking through what my data describes as a rock garden. This is a nice way of saying that there is nowhere great to step because the path is now a pile of rocks.

I got good at moving through the rock gardens, and soon was making respectable time. Then the going got a lot tougher as I started The Stairs, which lead to Heaven (as proven by various scriptures such as rock ballads). A vertical rock garden; I was practically rock climbing as I battled upwards.

Near the top I met Max, who I knew was out on the trail because of his journal. It was great to meet him, though we didn't chat for too long. Finally finished with a very tough section, I continued on along at the highest altitudes for my trek so far.

The last section of trail before the Cheaha State Park was difficult as well. Plenty of rock gardens and a few tough climbs were rewarded with a few stellar views from the rocky ledges at the top.

Coming down, I got to the Cheaha Trailhead, then walked up to the State Park, where everything was closed. I hung out for a few minutes before Kevin arrived in his truck camper with a pizza from town (!). We parked at the trailhead and hung out, finally getting to bed in the cozy camper. I was glad to be in the insulated space, not out in the cold.