---
author_profile: true
date: 20-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/21
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/20
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/19
title: March 20
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Getting another nice early start felt good. I wanted one because it was to be my last day on the Benton MacKaye Trail, and I would be arriving at Springer Mountain.

Before that, however, I had many more mountains to climb. I conquered each obstacle in short spurts, preferring short breaks to long, slow climbs. I eventually reached The Bald, where I met Thomas, a hiker out to see some of the BMT. He was headed back to Springer Mountain, so we hiked together and chatted.

We agreed that the Benton MacKaye Trail was very difficult, and he encouraged me in saying that the Appalachian Trail would not be so tough. Soon we started seeing more hikers, and Thomas notified me that we were on the Appalachian Trail. I was concerned that I was skipping part of the BMT until I realized that both trails were temporarily on the same ground.

Thomas hiked fast, and so I tried to keep the pace going when I led us up a tough hill. It was grueling hiking, and Thomas decided that the next time we intersected the Appalachian Trail, he would just take that to Springer Mountain instead of following the winding Benton MacKaye Trail there.

When that time came we parted ways and I continued on the Benton MacKaye, going every which way, and usually straight up. After a long and tiring set of miles I arrived at the southern terminus of the Benton MacKaye Trail. From there it was just a quarter of a mile to Springer Mountain, where I saw Thomas again and enjoyed the southern terminus of the Appalachian Trail.

It was incredible to finally be at the Appalachian Trail, and even a little emotional. This was the trail I had originally wanted to hike, and definitely the main attraction of the Eastern Continental Trail. After almost three months I was finally ready to start the AT.

Figuring that my approach to Springer Mountain from Key West was long enough, I skipped the approach trail from Amicalola Falls State Park and went to the Springer Mountain Shelter.

This was a big change for me. All of a sudden there were hikers everywhere. There were probably fifteen or twenty of us there, but only two of us wanted to stay in the shelter itself, everyone else preferring to camp. I enjoyed the company of the aspiring hikers, and had plenty to eat. Finally we all retired for the evening and I got some good sleep in the loft of the shelter.