---
author_profile: true
date: 22-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/22-1.jpg
        title: Inside Blood Mountain Shelter
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/22-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/22-2.jpg
        title: Old Blood Mountain Shelter Fireplace
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/22-2.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/22-3.jpg
        title: Blood Mountain Shelter
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/22-3.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/22-4.jpg
        title: Blood Mountain
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/22-4.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/23
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/22
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/21
title: March 22
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I had a restful night at the Hiker Hostel in Dahlonega. I talked briefly with other hikers over breakfast, and then we immediately got driven out to Woody Gap. As I went through my pack it started to rain. The other hikers and I ran laughing to the shelter of the restroom, and I got my pack ready and my rain gear on.

I kept my pace up throughout the light rain which continued throughout the morning, and I felt good. However, when I got to the Blood Mountain Shelter, I realized that my shirt was soaked, but not in rain. I had been sweating and my rain gear had not let me breathe at all.

Disgusted with my sweaty shirt, I wrung it out and admired the very old shelter. Built in the 1930's, it is one of the oldest on the whole Appalachian Trail. Finally leaving, I carefully got down off of Blood Mountain. The fog combined with the barren rock slabs on top of the mountain seemed like a great setting for a climactic movie scene.

As rain started up again, I tried my rain gear without my shirt, and tried not to overheat. The scheme worked fairly well, but by the time I got to Neel Gap the weather had hurt my spirits, and I was fairly wet.

I used the hand dryer to blow hot air into my rain gear, which got me dry. Then I checked out the outfitter. It was quite a cool little place, but the prices were definitely high. I wasn't surprised, given the location. I got myself together, and headed out since the rain was over.

Moving on, I hiked over similar mountains and gaps, finally reaching Low Gap Shelter. I stopped there a couple of hours before dark, and there were already about twenty other hikers there. Needless to say, the shelter was full.

I applied the permethrin I had been carrying since Woody Gap, and hung out a bit with other hikers camping out near the trail. I met Sticks, who had his food eaten by a bear the previous night, but had since resupplied and was hiking on.

I made some hot dinner, and set up my tarp right before dark. I felt pretty good, high and dry after a bit of a wet day.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}