---
author_profile: true
date: 24-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/25
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/24
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/23
title: March 24
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

As I lay in my bag in the morning, others camped nearby got their tents bagged up and left. I was in no hurry to leave. I had arranged to be picked up at Deep Gap, just seven miles away, in the afternoon. I cooked up a lot of food in an effort to lighten my pack, which was now resting solely on my shoulders.

Finally I got going and made my way from the border into North Carolina. My hike was mostly downhill, and I had plenty of time to reach my destination. I had safety pins on the side of my pack, holding it together temporarily.

I took my sweet time, stopping to journal a bit, and finally reaching Deep Gap in the early afternoon. I had been communicating with Dave and Debbie, my contacts from Franklin. I started up the forest road and met Dave driving down the road minutes later.

I was very happy to meet Dave, and he was a lot of fun to talk to and hang out with. He drove me back to the house where I met his wife Debbie, who was equally kind and a great host. I got my clothes washed, took a shower, and had some food to start. I learned that Debbie did alterations, so I paid her to sew up my pack with denim, and she did it like a real pro.

I enjoyed hanging out with Dave and Debbie, as well as meeting their daughter. Debbie went to work in the evening, and Dave took me to food and groceries, then back to the house to watch some television.

Poor Dave was recovering from jet lag from Madagascar, where he was working. I asked him all sorts of questions, but we both got tired after awhile, and I went to bed in the room they had so graciously prepared for me.