---
author_profile: true
date: 26-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/26-1.jpg
        title: Albert Mountain Fire Tower
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/26-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/26-2.jpg
        title: Panorama from Wayah Bald
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/26-2.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/26-3.jpg
        title: Wayah Bald
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/26-3.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/26-4.jpg
        title: John Byrd Tower at Wayah Bald
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/26-4.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/26-5.jpg
        title: On Wayah Bald
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/26-5.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/27
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/26
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/25
title: March 26
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I got up early and got my things packed up, leaving the shelter before most other hikers. The trail took me up Albert Mountain, which was a steep climb with a fire tower at the peak. I was disappointed to find the hatch at the top of the stairs locked, but not too much since I don't particularly enjoy being in tall structures on top of mountains.

From there the trail was almost completely downhill, and I did not use up too much energy as I half jogged down each switchback. I caught up with another hiker from Carter Gap Shelter, and because we went at approximately the same pace he ended up shadowing me for several miles. I have to admit that I was not really keen on having someone hiking right behind me after traveling alone for nearly two thousand miles.

We found a hiker box, but sadly there was little inside. I left my coincidental companion to rummage through it while I moved on. Not too many miles later, I reached Winding Stair Gap, where I came across my first real Trail Magic.

A man and his grandsons were giving hikers barbecue sandwiches, chips, drinks, and other snacks. I ended up scarfing down three sandwiches because they were so delicious.

After that I didn't eat for awhile, choosing to let my parking lot meal extend my food supply for a bit. I moved up the hills towards another tower, this one made of stone. Upon arriving, I took a panorama of the scene and talked briefly with another hiker, who decided to join me in hiking to the next shelter.

We had about two hours to cover a little over five miles, and we made good time. I enjoyed hearing of travels to Central and South America by my new companion, whose fiancé was from Venezuela. He was going to Las Cruces, New Mexico, after finishing the trail in order to be with her while she pursued a doctoral degree.

We arrived at a full shelter with a little time before dark, and started scoping out the camping areas. I settled on a spot up on a hill, and hoped it would not be too windy. I picked up some water, cooked my food, and went to bed.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}