---
author_profile: true
date: 28-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/29
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/28
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/27
title: March 28
---
I was the first of our camping group to leave the shelter. The immediate descent from the shelter was a little steep, but soon I was back into the rhythm of the ups and downs of the mountains.

The hike to Fontana Dam was not too tough. Many portions were long downhills which I half jogged. I arrived at the road right with a couple of hikers who I had seen at Deep Gap. The word was out that I was doing the Eastern Continental Trail.

Right at the phone for the shuttle, a couple of hikers had Trail Magic. I was ecstatic. I had some pizza and a Gatorade, and even a few Oreos. The guys were doing a Warrior AT Hike, raising funds for disabled veterans in need of special equipment.

I had another miniature pizza, and moved out about the same time as my trail angel hikers. I was happy, as I hadn't planned on going into Fontana Dam, yet I didn't have as much food as I wanted, and the Trail Magic solved the problem.

From there I walked down and enjoyed the dam, which was monstrous. There was a small road walk to do, and finally I was back in the mountains. I was excited to be in the Smoky Mountains for the first time, but I knew they would be difficult.

I just kept going and made myself do the hills with as few breaks as possible. I passed several shelters, and made it to Spence Field Shelter with a little time before dark. I was able to get a spot in the shelter, which was quite full. I felt good. I was going to stay dry and warm for the night, and the other guys said that we had already covered some of the hardest parts of the Smoky Mountains.