---
author_profile: true
date: 29-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/30
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/29
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/28
title: March 29
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Everyone was up pretty early, and I got going while it was still foggy. The Smokies stayed foggy for awhile, and I enjoyed hiking in the dense fog as I ascended Thunderhead Mountain. I walked on and the fog slowly dissipated as I passed a few shelters.

Soon I could feel myself slowly ascending, getting closer to Clingman's Dome. Finally I saw the mountain, and started running into day hikers who came from the dome. Confident and ready to summit the highest point on the Appalachian Trail, I climbed up and got to the observation deck, where many tourists had walked from their cars, parked down below.

I walked down and visited the gift shop, then climbed back up to the trail, surprised at the steepness of the paved walkway for tourists. Moving on, I descended and kept on descending while thunder boomed up above me. I waited until the first drops of rain came to don my rain gear.

The rain was not heavy but it lasted for some time, making me feel cold and wet as I passed by Indian Gap. When I reached Newfound Gap the rain had stopped, and the tourists were visiting a park, so I figured that I had better suck it up and keep walking.

I headed for Icewater Spring Shelter and passed two hikers along the way. I was absolutely shocked to find no one at the shelter when I arrived just an hour and a half before dark.

Bogey and her hiking friend joined me and we were the only ones in the shelter. Everyone else had bugged out to Gatlinburg. I was very happy to have space and be in a shelter for the night.