---
author_profile: true
date: 31-03-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/31-1.jpg
        title: Creek near Davenport Gap
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/31-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/31-2.jpg
        title: Directions to Standing Bear Hostel
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/31-2.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/small/31-3.jpg
        title: Max Patch
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/march/large/31-3.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/01
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/31
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/30
title: March 31
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

The Teton Boys and I packed up at about the same time, and I pushed ahead in the morning. I wanted to meet Lakeland after my failed attempt the previous day.

By the time I passed the next shelter, where he probably stayed, there was no one there. I hurried onward, down out of the mountains and past a big creek. Eventually I got down to Interstate 40 and talked to a pair of elderly hikers who told me that Lake would be drying out for a bit at Standing Bear Hostel.

I moved forward, trekking up and down a small set of climbs before arriving at the road leading to the hostel. A rock there had been made a painted advertisement for the hostel. I walked the short distance there, only to discover that I had missed my fellow ECT trekker by an hour or less.

I got a few things from the grocery shack, all reasonably priced, and spent a minimal amount of time at the hostel. I wanted to catch up with Lakeland, and the hostel did not seem too conducive for sleeping, considering that there had apparently been wrestling the previous night.

I soon moved on, and stormed up the big initial climb up Snowbird Mountain. I only took one break for about three seconds. I figured that a big climb would be a good way to make up the distance between us if I did it quickly.

I reached the peak after the long haul, and started a bit of a descent. Passing hikers occasionally, I started to pick up reports of two hikers just ahead of me. After what seemed like an eternity I caught sight of a younger hiker, and then below him, Lakeland.

I knew it was him because of his pack buddy Maverick, who winked at me as I drew closer. As Lakeland stopped at a gap I joined him, and slowly introduced myself as the other guy who had been to Key West. It was great to finally talk to Lake in person, and I met Metro North, the hiker with him.

Lake and I hiked together from there, talking about all the things we had both experienced thus far. I loved being able to converse with someone else who had been all of the places I had been on the trail.

We passed through some unique and scenic areas, including Max Patch, where we experienced a touch of rain. We pushed on and arrived at Walnut Mountain Shelter, where Metro North was.

We camped down in a low area and planned to get up early the next morning to walk to Hot Springs. Metro North and another hiker, Hot Sauce, agreed to join us.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}