---
date:   2021-11-06 09:00:00 +0100
layout: single
title:  "Turning on the Heat and Weighing Priorities"
---
It's November now, and my poor family has been living in a house that seems to get cooler by the day as winter approaches. Where we are, September is an enjoyable transition from summer to fall, October is a rude awakening that the warm weather is over, and by the time November arrives, we're wondering if November isn't technically winter. Today, we are waking up to a chilly morning, with the temperature below 0° Celsius. And yet, for now, only our children's bedroom has the heat on.

You see, I'm a bit of a cheapskate. So when I look at our expenses each month, I identify the electricity bill as being the biggest expense, and I try to find ways to minimize that expense. Of course, the fact that the electricity bill is the highest single expense is not necessarily unexpected, given that our neighborhood does not have a gas connection, meaning that the radiators which supply heat to each individual room are all electric. Also, I have to consider the fact that part of the electricity bill is the contract itself, meaning that there is less ability to reduce the bill in relation to its current amount.

In the same way, the argument can be made that increasing our electricity usage wouldn't be that bad, even doubling our usage would not double the bill. Up until now, our strategy has been to heat the bedrooms, the bathroom, and the living room. For the living room, we bought a lot of firewood for the wood-burning stove, and haven't been using the radiators. There are some inconveniences to that method, as we have to start and maintain the fire, but my wife and I both love having a fire going.

When considering the heating, there are many factors. First of all, there is our happiness, which tends to descend with the temperature. But on the other hand, we can also stay somewhat warm by wearing more clothing. But on the other hand, it's not enjoyable to wear a coat inside the house. But on the other hand, if we turn on the heat in the beginning of November, it will probably be on for almost five months, given that the month of March in Paris is not a warm, sunny, paradise. And back and forth go the arguments for and against turning on the heat, in which rooms, at what temperature, when, and for how long.

I think it's clear that the best option is a compromise somewhere in the middle. Saving a couple hundred euros over the course of the year won't be worth it if we are unhappy sitting in a cold house. But it won't just be a couple hundred euros if we turn the heat up warm enough to wear T-shirts and shorts around the house. We're going to have to wear sweatshirts and long pants, but that's fine with us. The main change I think we'll be making is to turn on the radiators in the living room to have some bare minimum heat.

So why am I going on and on about a relatively mundane decision, given that the difference between no heat and plenty of heat is less than a thousand euros for the entire year? It's the decision-making process that is important. We have to be able to have a process that correctly identifies all the important factors, and which identifies are own priorities. Then we try and reason the solution to align with those variables. It's the same kind of process we use when getting groceries for the week, or planning a trip, or choosing a career. The stakes may be higher, but the process is roughly the same. We practice the process and master it, even on decisions like when to turn on the heat. Then, when it comes time to choose a house, a career, or a partner, we are prepared to make the right choice.