---
author_profile: true
date: 02-01-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/03
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/02
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/01
title: January 2
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

After my first night on the trail I got up and got going when I found all of my stuff wet with dew.

Still without about half of my gear, my feet were starting to hurt. I covered a lot of miles but there is very little in the Lower Keys besides Key West.

During the day I turned my phone on occasionally to make sure I would receive my missing bag as soon as possible.

Walking the Seven Mile Bridge was easily the biggest single feat of the day. I saw a sea turtle come up for air, but it didn't stick around for a picture.

Finally done with the long bridge, I hobbled into Marathon, where I was offered two separate rides, one to the Homestead area. It hurt a little to turn that one down.

I finally arrived at the Golden Arches and rested. Even though I hadn't eaten anything I wasn't very hungry. After a few hours my bag was delivered by the incredible Rico, who stayed after normal hours to pick it up then drive an hour to get it to me.

I am very thankful to Rico, Heather, and Joe(?) for being so reliable, unlike some airlines I have flown in the past...

I hobbled out of McDonald's after declining to get an expensive motel, and found a suitable spot to sleep. It was windy so I moved back into the woods a bit. My feet appreciated the rest.
