---
author_profile: true
date: 03-01-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/04
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/03
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/02
title: January 3
---
After a rough second day on the trail, I woke up after a bit of a restless night in which I shooed away a raccoon, and packed up. I noticed that I couldn't find my CatTarp in my bag.

I was surprised not to be walking bridges constantly, instead seeing woods all around. By late lunch I arrived in Layton and saw a closed restaurant, then a gas station. I stopped there to get some food, and did so despite the suspicious clerk.

While resting and eating outside, a guy and girl show up with big packs. I met Kelly and Echo, and we walked north in the grass for awhile. It was good to have some company. Incredibly, Kelly went to high school in the same county I did.

Eventually they opted to hitch and I walked on. Kelly and Echo, I'll miss y'all. Perhaps we will meet again. Thanks for being adventurous without being obnoxious.

After a long day of walking, I arrived in the Islamorada region. I called Heather from the baggage delivery company to ask for help finding my CatTarp, but it was not to be found. My thanks go out again to you, Heather, and the rest of the crew for being so caring.

I also met Daewood, who was heading to Key West for a vacation from the Occupy movements. I had not met anyone who had been to those movements, so it was a bit new for me. It was good to meet you, Daewood.

Finally, after a lot more walking, I found a good plot of woods to bed down in.
