---
author_profile: true
date: 10-01-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/january/small/10-1.jpg
        title: Florida Trail Loop Road Southern Terminus
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/january/large/10-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/january/small/10-2.jpg
        title: Trail Through the Swamp
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/january/large/10-2.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/11
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/10
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/09
title: January 10
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I woke up at times during the night at the deserted Southern Terminus, but didn't start packing up until dawn. By the time I was ready I was a little later than I wanted to be.

I stood at the edge of the swamp, stared and thought for a few seconds, and took the plunge into ankle-deep water. Pretty soon I was used to the terrain and was starting to enjoy it. This certainly was a different kind of trail.

The section south of the Oasis Visitor Center was mostly ankle-deep water, mud, and a swampy lagoon that was knee-deep.

I made good time and didn't stay long at the Visitor Center, preferring to press on. I signed my first register, saw that Chuck Norris' group had passed through days ago, and a few had been there two days prior.

I was surprised to run into one of those signatures a couple of miles past the center. I moved on and made it to Ten Mile Camp by three in the afternoon, which the Data Book claimed was a mile farther. Despite the discrepancy I thought I could go on to Thirteen Mile Camp before dark, another seven miles, supposedly.

I raced on, hoping for as little water as possible so that I could make camp before dark. I checked the time at about four thirty and was not too happy with my progress. I kept on, counting the miles and watching the sun. It was looking like it was going to be very close when I came upon the camp a mile before the Data Book's reported position.

There was already a guy there, so we talked a little and I shared some of my poor cooking skills. Brian is a section hiker who does all sections to and from his car.

I got ready for bed and lay down as our small campfire died out.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}
