---
author_profile: true
date: 23-01-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/24
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/23
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/22
title: January 23
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I woke up under my tree feeling warm, having slept without interruptions. I packed up and hit the road, ready to be done with the asphalt for awhile, but still with a sizeable distance to the dirt trail.

I stopped after hitting a state road, and was lucky to be joined by a water inspector, who let me refill my water. I realized that I had taken the road the wrong way for a very short distance, but in doing so had refilled my water.

Back in the right direction, I stopped to pick up some gator jerky at a stand on the side of the highway. It was good, though I can't compare to regular beef jerky.

I was pleased with the quickness with which I reached the dirt trail, and was able to rest and not have to worry about pace for the rest of the day.

Leading up to Christmas was more walking in the forest. The folks at the Florida Trail Association have done a good job including plenty of forest. Don't whine about the road walking too much, because they could easily reroute us through the swamps for the entire trail.

Getting into Christmas, I found the grocery I was looking for, which was basically a convenience store without gas pumps. While I sat outside I met Matt, who, when I asked if I could sleep on his lawn, took me to his neighbor's house, which apparently was now owned by the mortgage company.

I slept under the sheltered back porch, and was actually hot in my sleeping bag. Just another excuse to get going north.