---
author_profile: true
date: 28-01-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/29
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/28
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/january/27
title: January 28
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

After a cold and restless night I got moving and didn't stop too often. While there had not been any large stands of pines the day before, there were bigger sections of trees here. This was truly a forest to behold.

Though the continuous process of burning down the older pines and planting new trees in formations does seem rather artificial at times, it still made for a great atmosphere.

I ran into some kids who looked like the Rainbow Kids that Daewood had described to me almost a month ago, but they said that while they had been hanging out with them, they were not actually part of the group. Soon afterwards I met some guys messing around on ATVs who were interested in my journey and said the Rainbow group had just gotten into town that weekend. It was good to see some folks my age enjoying the forest, not just Boy Scout Troops and older men.

I counted down the miles to the junction with the Western Corridor, then made my way to the 88 Store at the end of the day.

This place was a big surprise. I was expecting a regular convenience store, and what I got was a store, pub, laundry machines, and I believe they even had showers. I got the bartender to make me a couple pizzas while she jawed with all the regulars.

I enjoyed listening to the way everyone talked to each other, and watched a couple guys play Xbox. They even had the Kinect. I read over a really cool Hiker Guest Book which all hikers coming through the store sign, and recognized names of hikers whose journals I had read online.

Eventually I grew tired, and went out to the laundry shack, which they let hikers sleep in if we want to. I definitely wanted to, because it was cold out and nice and warm in the shack. I just wish every trail day could finish like this.