---
author_profile: true
date: 30-01-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/january/31
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/january/30
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/january/29
title: January 30
---
I stayed in my sleeping bag late after switching to the bottom of the Hilton in the very early morning. It was warmer down there, and I was sick of the cold. I slowly got moving and made myself some hot food. Finally I got going before noon.

I walked at a normal pace, and filled up my water at a church on one of the dirt roads before hitting Etoniah Creek State Forest.

I was accosted by a driver later who wanted me to know that the book of Revelation says that in the future there will be only 16-hour days, and that the tsunami in Japan contributed to global warming, which is part of the Apocalyptic Scenario, and that The United Nations and Israel got together and made a deal with the Devil in Hell, etc., etc., etc. At first I wanted to discuss it, but after about fifteen seconds I realized that it would be a hopeless and very long conversation, so I excused myself and walked on.

I thought it odd that the state forest was named after a creek, but when I saw it I understood. This creek has water that moves, and is usually in a ravine. This is a big deal in the world of Florida creeks. Usually these things are stagnant mud puddles with no discernible banks.

When I saw the Iron Bridge Shelter I decided to call it a very short day and take a nap. I was tired because I don't sleep well in the cold, and there are only a few of these shelters on the whole Florida Trail, so I wanted to take advantage.