---
author_profile: true
date: 01-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/02
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/01
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/march/31
title: April 1
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

My annoying internal alarm clock awakened me twenty minutes before five in the morning, when we had agreed to pack up camp. Finally I started to get my things together as Lake made swift work of his packing job. I was a bit late in readying myself to hike, but we all set out with our headlamps on just before six.

Our twilight hike was fun for me because we had a group and not just one or two. We stopped for a short time to take pictures of the sunrise and enjoy the view. I hardly ever see the sun rise, so it was a unique experience for me.

We then set off down the mountains, descending many switchbacks. I was a little discouraged that we were not going to be in town for breakfast despite our early start, but we did not make bad time. I got separated from the group when I took care of some official trail business at the last shelter's privy, and waited for Lake for a short time, thinking he was still behind me.

Finally moving on, I saw the town of Hot Springs from above and made my way down, finding the whole group at the new Laughing Heart Lodge, where I had a room reserved. Lake was there and I finally got to meet the host, Chuck Norris, who had taken a group hiking on the Florida Trail when I was down there.

We had some great food at the diner in town. I loved hanging out with our little group, and was also glad to get some laundry done. I was even happier when a rain storm hit and Chuck brought his hiker van down to pick up hikers in town, saving us from a wet return to the hostel.

I spent the rest of the day pigging out on ice cream and other junk food and chatting with Lake and Chuck. Our host was excited to have two guys doing the Eastern Continental Trail at his hostel, and he made me feel good in the way in which he admired our journey. I had my own room and even a double bed. Needless to say, I slept quite well when I got tired and retired to my quarters for the night.