---
author_profile: true
date: 03-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/3-1.jpg
        title: French Broad River
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/3-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/3-2.jpg
        title: Rex Pulford Memorial
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/3-2.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/3-3.jpg
        title: Trail Magic Ahead
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/3-3.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/3-4.jpg
        title: Trail Magic Brownie Sundae
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/3-4.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/04
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/03
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/02
title: April 3
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

The day came for me to leave Chuck Norris and Tigger at the Laughing Heart, and continue north. I had to pick up groceries, so Lake went on ahead. After fumbling around trying to find my way out of town, I did and started climbing up away from the river. I passed by Lake and kept going after saying goodbye.

The hike out of town was uphill, but not unreasonably difficult. I passed by several of the hikers that I had met and hung out with in Hot Springs including Creature and So Far, a couple of brothers from the same part of Pennsylvania as Lake.

I arrived at a state road and saw a sign for trail magic food at a nearby house. I went there and was greeted by Hercules and FAL, a couple who thru-hiked the trail years ago. They served fantastic Belgian waffles, stew, and a brownie sundae.

Afterwards they talked to us about life after death and offered us Christian books to take with us. I noticed a pamphlet from Campus Crusade for Christ, and talked briefly about that since I was involved with them in college.

Pretty soon it was time to leave, and I hurried off down the road, anxious to hit the trail again. I powered uphill as thunder boomed off to the East. My iPhone told me that it was going to rain in North Carolina, but I was almost to Tennessee. I wasn't sure about the weather at the border.

Finally I arrived at the first shelter from the road. I decided that I was staying because the skies looked dark. Sure enough, twenty minutes later the rain started, and it poured. It felt great to be dry and have a spot in the shelter.

The rain didn't let up, and soon soaking wet hikers came trickling in, some wanting to sleep in the full shelter. We made a little room for a couple of guys, and the rest got their tents set up when the rain lightened up a tiny bit. I slept fairly well, as I usually do in the shelters. The fact that we were packed in there did not really bother me.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}