---
author_profile: true
date: 04-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/4-1.jpg
        title: Panoramic View of Tennessee
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/4-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/4-2.jpg
        title: Mountain Meadows before Big Bald
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/4-2.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/05
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/04
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/03
title: April 4
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Everyone got up at about the same time at the shelter. I got going pretty early compared to most of the other hikers. The morning terrain consisted of the same wooded hills that are the bread and butter of the Appalachian Trail.

By the time I got to the next shelter, there were still a few section hikers who were about to start hiking. I quickly changed out of my long johns, which I wear in the cold mornings, and left them behind.

I was not concentrating on my pace, but rather going at whatever speed my legs felt like going. They must have felt good, because I made great time.

I passed a small road where a local hillbilly was trying to have his picture taken with a street sign by some hikers. I moved on, happy to not be called aside.

I got to Hogback Ridge Shelter, where a sign proclaimed trail magic to be ahead at the interstate every day until two thirty in he afternoon. Checking the time, I was bummed to find it to be just past two thirty, with the food over two miles away.

Moving past the interstate, I climbed a few hills, then later caught sight of Big Bald. As I made my way closer, I did not seem to get too much higher. Finally, with the bald way over me, I did a bit of a steep climb and found myself on top of the beautiful and very windy bald.

I got off of the frigid bald, passed another hiker, and soon arrived at my destination for the day, Bald Mountain Shelter. Though there were plenty of people there, I was elated to find a spot awaiting me in the shelter, with plenty of time to cook up dinner.

I had made great time without focusing on my timing. It had been a great day, and I was happy to rest and enjoy the company of a new group of hikers. The shelter treated me well, and I slept well.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}