---
author_profile: true
date: 05-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/5-1.jpg
        title: Nolichucky River
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/5-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/5-2.jpg
        title: Approaching Erwin, Tennessee
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/5-2.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/06
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/05
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/04
title: April 5
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Looking forward to putting in a lot more miles on the trail, I hit the ground walking from my bunk up top in the shelter, while everyone else was still asleep in their bags.

I came down off of Bald Mountain and did a lot of downhill half-jogging. I kept expecting to hit a major climb, but that only happened once or twice. Most of the trail was well graded and easy climbing.

Passing up No Business Knob Shelter, I started thinking about my upcoming decision concerning going into Erwin. Lake had not recommended Uncle Johnny's Hostel, but staying there seemed like a good way to get a ride into town.

Dark clouds seemed to be moving into the area, and I knew that if it rained and I got soaked I would be miserable. A great way to wait out the rain would be to pig out in town, but I didn't necessarily need to resupply my trail food.

Finally I opted to try and get a ride into town. As I looked down on Erwin from above, I felt that I was very close, but that soon faded as I descended the thousand switchbacks leading down to the road.

Eventually I arrived at the road and visited Uncle Johnny's briefly to talk to other hikers. Uncle Johnny wanted five bucks to take me to KFC, but I passed on that. I opted to start walking and try to hitch.

Immediately outside the hostel, a car came and I stuck out my thumb. Success! I winked at the other hikers as if this type of thing happened to me all the time, and hopped in. I got a ride to the north side of town, and walked into a Mexican restaurant.

I think all Mexican restaurants on the East coast print their menus at the same place, because I had the same thing I used to get in Virginia when I was in high school. From there I forged on to a Little Caesar's Pizza, and then grabbed some groceries. Content, I headed for McDonald's.

A couple hundred yards from the golden arches, it started to rain. I hurried up and got there just in time. I sat down and watched the downpour outside, supremely content.

Once the monsoon died down, I started my walk back towards the trail, but was preempted by a guy offering me a ride. We stopped at the post office, then he dropped me off at Uncle Johnny's.

I hung out with Mailbox, Spiderman, Motown, and a few other hikers I had met before. When it started to rain I accepted Mailbox's offer to sleep in his rented cabin. We had a good time, albeit a late night. I wasn't too thrilled about the other hikers' herb usage, but it was pouring outside and I didn't want to leave. Finally I got to bed, planning to leave early the next morning.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}