---
author_profile: true
date: 08-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/09
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/08
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/07
title: April 8
---
Lake and I got up at about the same time, but he started hiking first because he packs up faster than I. The climb over Hump Mountain was done in gale force winds, and I was happy with my decision to wear my ultra-fashionable stealth quilt for the first part of the day.

With the worst of the cold and wind behind us, we hiked on and got ready for town at Doll Flats. We were happy to share Easter together, and anxious to find food and a church, in that order.

We met Kevin and Christine, two hikers who I had seen back near Franklin, and again at Fontana Dam. They were making good time. We eventually passed the site of the old Apple House Shelter and got out to the road.

I decided that we should head west. We stopped in at the Mountain Harbour hostel, where Lakeland and Skrewloose were both planning on spending the night. The owner agreed to give us a ride to Subway in Roan Mountain! I was very happy, because that would have been a long walk.

On the way we passed several churches, and the Roan Mountain Church of Christ was the closest to Subway. I scarfed down two subs and we walked over. We stood out like hiker trash at an Easter Sunday service. Actually, I stood out and Lake looked nice.

The folks at the church were nice and invited us to stay for food afterwards, which we of course did. It was good, and the song leader even gave us a ride to Dollar General and back to the hostel. We were on a roll.

Skrewloose had arrived at the hostel, so I met him and hung out with him and Lake, albeit briefly. I was anxious to head North, and bid my two hiking friends goodbye. Sad to leave my good friend Lake again but hungry for more miles on the trail, I pressed through beautifully green scenery to Mountaineer Shelter.

The shelter was exquisite and there were only four of us. I met Tickle Monster and two German hikers, one of whom I had seen several times before. We had a nice night and even had a campfire. Tired, I got a full night's sleep.