---
author_profile: true
date: 10-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/11
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/10
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/09
title: April 10
---
I was true to my intentions of starting early. Up before the sun, Christine asked me to wake up Metro North but I could not identify his tent.

I got going and saw a sunrise over Iron Mountain Prison, one place I did not want to bunk. Coming down to a road, I got to walk a small portion of the trail which was handicap accessible. It was very well manicured, and I enjoyed it, though the green hillsides made for a bit of a windy experience.

Back in the woods, I plowed through the miles leading to Damascus, passing by an unofficial shelter which I doubt could sleep even three or four. Hitting the Tennessee - Virginia state line was fun for me since I grew up in Virginia.

The remaining miles into Damascus were a constant descent in which I met several locals who all encouraged me to eat at Quincey's Pizza in town. On my approach to the main street I walked through a nice big park which would have been perfect for stealth camping except that the whole town knew of hikers and was on the lookout for that sort of thing.

I went to the post office first and got my mail, then went to the Dollar General for some junk food and a bit of trail food. The one and a half quarts of ice cream were a bit chilly on the windy street bench. Then I went to the library as one of my last stops.

Leaving my pack outside, I charged my phone inside then sent some photos. In the process a guy played video games on his Sony Playstation handheld just outside. Finally ready to go, I realized that I did not have my trekking poles!

I was sure that I had left them out with my pack. Checking the only three places I had been yielded no results, although the inner room of the post office was now closed. In despair I called my parents and discussed my options.

I decided to spend the night at The Place, but was hoping to catch a ride to Warren Doyle's school with Bomber, who was going there. Metro North, Kevin, and Christine all showed up and we headed for Quincey's Pizza.

As I expected, the food was more expensive than what I wanted to pay. Also, there were only two waitresses to serve fifty hikers. It took an absurdly long time for us to get anything at all, but I was glad to at least be with friends.

After dinner we went back to The Place. There was no host and the environment was pretty relaxed. We all picked a bunk and went to bed. I was anxious to look for my poles the next day.