---
author_profile: true
date: 11-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/12
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/11
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/10
title: April 11
---
We all got up and headed for the post office. They did not have my trekking poles, so I figured that they had been stolen from outside the library. Everyone else grabbed their mail while I filed a police report.

Learning that my mother was on the way with new poles, I was happy but figured I would still have to climb out of town without them. I stopped at the coffee place and Subway once it opened, then headed out of town.

Finally getting cell phone service from the lackluster AT&T, I learned that my mom was in Damascus, so I gave directions to meet me and went back down to meet her. It was great to see family for the first time since 2011. We traded a bit of gear and talked, then I headed back to the mountain. It was a short visit, but we planned another sometime later on in Virginia.

I only passed a couple of hikers climbing up out of town. The various hills just outside of Damascus are not memorable, but White Top Mountain was freezing cold. Hiding behind a rock, I got warmer clothes on and continued on.

Making good time, I arrived at Deep Gap and passed another hiker, a rare sight. My goal was to get to Thomas Knob Shelter, and I got there just before dark. The water was not too close, but I got some, cooked, and got in my bag.

The other hiker showed up and we all tried to stay warm on a very cold night. I got some sleep and did not realize how cold it had been until the following morning.