---
author_profile: true
date: 13-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/13-1.jpg
        title: Partnership Shelter
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/13-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/13-2.jpg
        title: Panorama Outside Atkins, Virginia
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/13-2.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/13-3.jpg
        title: Snake in the Leaves
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/13-3.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/13-4.jpg
        title: Lindamood School
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/13-4.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/13-5.jpg
        title: Old House by Holston River
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/13-5.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/14
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/13
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/12
title: April 13
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I thought I would be the first to leave the shelter, but just as I rose three guys walked off, guided in the dark by their headlamps. I packed my gear and left a little later, using my headlamp to travel the first mile or two.

I met up with the group at a trail magic cooler placed near a road by a Baptist youth group, and joined them in partaking of the newly stocked food and a couple of Capri Suns. They soon left but I passed them later when they took a smoke break. They planned to take the shuttle to Marion for fifty cents, but I wanted to press through Atkins and get to Knot Maul Branch Shelter.

I passed the large Partnership Shelter and tested the shower, which worked. Unfortunately I didn't have the time to take one. Moving on, I gradually descended down into low territory near creeks and lots of brush, finally exiting to big grassy hills near a small museum.

The atmosphere going into Atkins was incredible. The sun was out and it smelled like Spring, and some blossoming flowers and trees provided some colorful visuals.

Anxious to get some food and get hiking again, I went to The Barn and got a Hiker Burger which did not disappoint. I saw in the log there that Sticks had one just the day before. Moving over to the gas station, I was disappointed to find the restaurant closed, but got a few items to resupply me at the store, packed up, and headed out.

I took a break outside of Atkins to inspect my feet. The balls looked like golf balls, and they were starting to irritate me while I walked. I changed my socks and moved on. Seeing the Davis Path Campsite, I could tell that it used to be a shelter but was now just a platform.

After climbing the hundredth Brushy Mountain on the Appalachian Trail, I descended and finally came to the shelter, where I met AC and Hawkeye, who was just finished recovering from a swollen leg. We talked while I cooked, then I got in my nice warm sleeping bag and partook in my favorite nighttime activity: sleeping.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}