---
author_profile: true
date: 14-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/15
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/14
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/13
title: April 14
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

My morning started on time as I left Hawkeye and AC at the shelter. I got out some jelly beans which I bought in Atkins and had a few every time a flat section of trail presented itself.

I did not feel like hiking. I contented myself to taking many breaks and eating plenty of jelly beans, which seemed to not give me any energy at all. After ascending Chestnut Knob I checked my time and was pleased to note I had averaged about two miles each hour.

I checked out the cool shelter and met T.L., who had stayed there the previous night. He borrowed my phone to arrange to be picked up by a Lutheran couple who advertised their number in the shelter.

We both walked down to Walker Gap and his ride soon arrived. Because I was not in a hurry and did not feel like hiking I asked if I could come along, and the gentleman, Peter, welcomed me.

Peter treated us like royalty, and so did his wife, who we met back at their house. I was soon showered and eating a great lunch while my clothes were being washed. I used their computer to research more information on the trail while Peter and T.L. talked, which they enjoyed doing a lot of.

We went to Tazewell and got groceries as well as a trip to Sonic, a real treat for me. Back at the house, we had a fantastic dinner and I opted to stay the night, as did T.L. We had a great time enjoying the company of our hosts, who fed us lots of ice cream. I slept very full, happy with all the great food I had eaten.