---
author_profile: true
date: 15-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/16
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/15
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/14
title: April 15
---
I asked to be dropped off early in the morning so that I could do a lot of miles after my short day. Of course, Peter's wife served me a fantastic omelet and complete breakfast before I left.

Peter drove me out to Walker Gap, I thanked him for his incredible hospitality, and I started up the trail. Most of the morning was fairly nondescript, with only a couple climbs.

I reached the road to Bland and continued on underneath giant rock cliffs across Interstate 77. Getting back on the footpath, I saw AC and chatted briefly about the previous day.

From there the hike was not too difficult. I passed the path to Helvey's Mill Shelter but continued on. I did not feel tired, thanks in part to my continuous daydreaming throughout the day. I found myself on the final stretch to Jenny Knob Shelter and pressed on, arriving well before dark.

I met two section hikers at the shelter from Mobile. I told them about the Pinhoti trail and we talked briefly before I started to get caught up on my journal. The water source was not easy to find, but it was there. Other hikers had noted in the register that they thought it was totally dry.

I took a picture of the rules for the Suitcase Challenge, of which I had heard variants described since my time at the Springer Mountain Shelter. I declined to take up the challenge, as I wanted to go to the Wood's Hole Hostel the next day. After I cooked my dinner, I slept well, and felt good after doing over thirty miles with little effort.