---
author_profile: true
date: 16-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/16-1.jpg
        title: Walk in the Woods
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/16-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/16-2.jpg
        title: Woods Hole Hostel
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/16-2.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/17
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/16
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/15
title: April 16
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Attempting to be quiet, I got up early and got my gear packed up. I wanted to do twenty miles quickly so that I could relax at the Wood's Hole Hostel. I'm not sure if I succeeded in being quiet but I did leave the shelter early.

Most of the hiking during the day was at low altitudes, meandering about in the woods and along small streams and creeks. I must have crossed the same stream more than five times.

Passing Wapiti Shelter earlier than I thought I would, I climbed up a big hill. I had suspected there would be a big climb but didn't know for sure. After going at the mountain with a great deal of effort for what seemed like a small eternity, I reached the flat top and enjoyed the rest of the trail down to the gap and road leading to the Wood's Hole Hostel.

At the hostel I met Easy, who works at the hostel, aiding the owners (Michael and Neville) daily. We chatted for a while as I rifled through the hiker box and picked out a lot of good bars. A few other hikers gradually shuffled in, and I met Willie Boy, Bugger and Bat, who is legally blind.

Neville, Michael, One Step and Spider showed up later. Michael had a minor surgical operation and I never saw him. Because of that, we did not have dinner. One Step was hurt and booked a bus back to his home state of Michigan.

Neville made some great milkshakes, and offered to sell us microwave pizzas. Coming off of the incredible charity from Peter, I did not feel like spending much on food. I just enjoyed the hammock at the bunkhouse, which had nice bunks and plenty of good amenities if you were willing to pay for them.

Glad to be experiencing a hostel with a lot of history on the Appalachian Trail, I got to bed a little late, but planned to leave early the next morning.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}