---
author_profile: true
date: 27-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/28
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/27
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/26
title: April 27
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

Orange Lightning was the first northbound hiker to leave the shelter, and I was close behind. His name is probably Orange Lightning because he hikes at least four miles an hour, quite fast on a mountain trail.

We were constantly getting in each other's way as he would stop to look at every little thing, then speed ahead until he stopped again. In the meantime I would be hiking at a steady pace while he constantly leap frogged ahead of me. Finally I did an uphill climb and he never caught up.

From there on it was smooth hiking for me as I neared the part of the Appalachian Trail closest to home. I saw Wintergreen Resort across from Humpback Mountain. I used to ski and snowboard there, only breaking bones on two separate occasions in the span of twelve months.

It was a tad nostalgic for me to pass over Humpback Mountain and the side trail to Humpback Rocks, where my parents took me when I was a child. Soon I was thinking of Waynesboro, where I would meet my dad.

The last few miles went by quickly, and I got to the parking lot where my dad and I departed for the local Chinese buffet. It was fantastic, and I only wished that I could stick around longer to eat more.

Instead, I needed to get back on the trail, so we went to the grocery store and then back to the trailhead, where I left and started the second half of my hiking day.

The hiking was not particularly difficult as I made my way towards Blackrock Hut. I got a little confused with the mileage as darkness approached, but soon figured it out. With my headlamp on and my feet still moving, I got to Blackrock Hut to find it only partially occupied.

I felt lucky since it was a Friday night. With a full stomach I went to bed planning to get up early the next day.