---
author_profile: true
date: 28-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/29
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/28
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/april/27
title: April 28
---
Up early and packed, I left the hut before my two shelter mates. I wanted to leave even earlier, but could not bear to get any less sleep. I was soon at Blackrock, where there were a couple of photographers capturing the sunrise. I remembered Blackrock from when I was a child, and the site was nostalgic.

Walking on, I set out to get to Swift Run Gap as soon as I could. I had a plan to meet Phil and Colleen, a couple of college friends. In addition, it was going to rain in the afternoon, so my timing would be perfect. In the meantime, I just had to hike and hope to stay dry.

Crossing Skyline Drive several times was part of the day's walk, and after each crossing I would go up and down a miniature mountain or two. There was a tiny bit of rain, but it was very light. I'm not sure if my rain gear was needed, but I donned the jacket just in case. Before long I took it off and did not see any more rain.

Getting word from my friends that they would meet me at Swift Run Gap, I was happy and hiked on with sustained energy. I made good time and counted down the miles to US 33 as they shortened.

I got there just after two in the afternoon and met my friends. It was great to see them after about a year, and we drove to Harrisonburg, where we went to college. I could tell they did not quite know what to make of me and my journey, but they were glad to see me.

In town I got to see a bunch of old friends again, and I had a blast. Just catching up and sitting around absorbing the college town life was a welcome break from the trail. Phil cooked up a fantastic dinner, and I stuffed myself silly with junk food as well. I went to bed feeling great, ready to hang out in town for another half day.