---
author_profile: true
date: 29-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/29-1.jpg
        title: Straight Trail
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/29-1.jpg
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/small/29-2.jpg
        title: Big Meadows Lodge
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/april/large/29-2.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/30
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/29
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/28
title: April 29
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I woke up a little early, but the couch at Phil's house was so comfortable that I lay there for a few more hours. I had stayed up late and had not slept long. After I got up I got a shower and arranged for my friend Michael to take me with him to church.

He came by and we went to the church where I saw Joetta, his wife. It had been over a year since we had spent any time together, so it was great to see them both. The service was nice, and afterwards I met a few people before Michael took me to a Subway and then back to the trail.

I was sorry to leave Michael so soon, but I had to get hiking. Spending just over twenty four hours off the trail, I felt like my stop in Harrisonburg had been efficient but still restful.

The terrain I hiked that afternoon was identical to the previous parts of the park. I crossed Skyline Drive several times and passed a few other campgrounds and contact points with civilization. I had missed the weekend hikers by getting off the trail.

I texted Swivel and Spiral to see where they were, and they were planning to go to the same shelter as I! I arrived there before dark, cooked dinner and went to bed. They arrived long after dark, but there was no time to talk about what they had been up to since I was so tired. I slept very hard after staying up late the previous night.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}