---
author_profile: true
date: 30-04-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/may/01
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/30
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/april/29
title: April 30
---
I slept well and I slept in, letting the other hikers leave before me. Spiral and Swivel also slept in since they did not arrive at the shelter until after ten at night.

They explained that they had hung out with a group called the Hot Garbage Crew at Big Meadows Wayside. They described a group that sounded like a lot of fun to sit and hang out with, but nearly impossible to hike with due to all sorts of excursions for alcohol.

Spiral and Swivel went ahead and I followed close behind. I passed a horse stable before I caught up to them. The hike went well, and I enjoyed talking with friends instead of walking in silence all day.

We made good time to Elkwallow Gap, where I wanted to try a Blackberry milkshake. Spiral and Swivel got there first, and apparently someone must have liked them, because they got two free blackberry milkshakes. Swivel gave me hers when I arrived. It was great, and best of all, free.

Drop Out, a member of the Hot Garbage Crew, arrived and we continued to sit at the picnic table but we started to think about leaving. Finally all four of us geared up and left.

We had not gone more than half a mile before we entered into dense mist and fog. The trees were wet and would shower us when hit by the wind. It was also not too warm out, but hiking warmed us up some. We hurried onward, trying to get to Gravel Springs Hut.

We finally got there after getting damp, and were initially disappointed to see several other hikers. When we found room for ourselves in the hut we brightened up. We met Drop and a girl from UVA, and I talked to them both about Charlottesville for a few minutes. There were several other folks there who had a good fire going, and one drunk guy who opted to set up his hammock in the cold.

It was a good night though we were a little worried about the possibility of hiking in the rain the next day. We talked a lot of strategy concerning our hiking and the weather, then went to bed. It rained a decent amount throughout the night.