---
author_profile: true
date: 05-06-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/06
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/05
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/04
title: June 5
---
I ended up joining Drop Out and D for another ride from The Shuttle Connection back out to the silly paved path leading to the trail. I didn't enjoy it, but I needed an early start and couldn't afford to sit around waiting for a hitch that might never come.

We got back to the Appalachian Trail by seven and started up a nice big climb to Franconia Ridge. We finally made it up there, only to be rewarded by the Alpine environment with terrible winds and misty wetness.

Walking along as fast as we could, Drop Out predicted that the ridge was going to be harsh for a matter of miles, and he was right. I donned my rain jacket minus the zipper, and managed to stay warm as we did some unwelcomed rock climbing and other time-consuming maneuvers in the freezing gusts. Eventually we reached Mt. Lafayette and found a little haven to use, and took a spot with a big group of school kids.

Moving along the ridge, we endured more of the same miserable weather. I was happy to have my waterproof mittens on, as they kept my hands warm and at least not soaked, if a tad sweaty.

Drop Out and D moved ahead of me as I slowed down to navigate the steep descents and climbs jumbled in a morass of slippery roots and rocks. Often I had to stop and use my hands to grab onto trees and swing downwards. The trail was definitely treacherous, and I had a lot to lose by incurring an injury.

My slow pace did eventually lead me to Galehead Hut, where I stopped in and grabbed some water. I was a little disappointed that the staff was too busy to talk, and I moved on.

More monotonously slow-paced hiking followed as I patiently descended and climbed the difficult trail. As I neared my destination, everything became Zealand-related: Zeacliff, a Zealand trail, and finally, Zealand Falls Hut. I went inside and the crew (or Croo, as they cleverly spelt the word) immediately invited me to stay in exchange for a little work.

I gladly accepted, and they gave me some soup to eat. Drop Out and D showed up after getting a bit turned around at a nearby vista. They were invited to stay as well. We were lucky, as usually only two thru-hikers are let in on the work program. They got to work rearranging some attic space while I relaxed and waited to give a presentation on my hike to a large group of seventh graders.

Dinner was fantastic. There was plenty for everyone, and I must have had several of the raspberry bars made for dessert. I enjoyed explaining my hike to the kids and answering their questions, which were surprisingly intelligent.

We didn't get to sleep in the dining room until late due to the activity at the hut. I slept underneath one of the tables. Perhaps I was a little paranoid of getting wet after days and days of rain.