---
author_profile: true
date: 14-06-2012 12:00:00 -0500
gallery:
    -   image_path: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/june/small/14-1.jpg
        title: Maine Ponds Panorama
        url: /assets/images/exploration/eastern-continental-trail/june/large/14-1.jpg
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/15
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/14
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/13
title: June 14
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

We had all gone to bed late, but I still wanted to get a full day of hiking in. I knew that Sue, the motel owner, would give me a ride back to the trail if I asked, but she wouldn't be around for a few more hours. I packed up and walked off, planning to hitch back to the trail.

I was lucky enough to get a ride before even walking out of town. Back on the trail, I headed back up into the woods. I was lucky enough to be able to tackle Bigelow Mountain, my most challenging task, in the morning.

By the time I got close enough to see the mountain I had already climbed to a significant height and kept on going, happy with the amount of energy I was able to sustain. Before long I had summitted both peaks of Bigelow Mountain and was on my way down.

I ran into Conquered, who had not stopped in at Stratton at all. We talked very briefly but I left him behind quickly because I was attempting to go a long way before the day was done. He encouraged me with the news that the trail between West Carry Pond and Pierce Pond was quite easy, and that hikers could get breakfast at Harrison's Pierce Pond Fishing Camp.

Every time the mosquitoes started to attack I knew that I was nearing a pond. Reaching West Carry Pond with plenty of time to continue, I marched on and was pleased to find that Conquered's tale of an easy trail was true. Walking along through the flat forest, I got a little bored, not having had such an easy time on the trail in a long time.

I noted with interest that many of the signs on the trail were on posts standing about fifteen feet high. The snows must really pile up in Maine when winter sets in. I arrived at Pierce Pond Lean-to with time to sit and enjoy the pond before sunset. I flagged down one of the fishermen and told him to tell Harrison that I would be coming in the morning for breakfast.

The mosquitoes were annoying, but went away eventually. I declined to take a dip in the pond since a note in the shelter register mentioned leeches half a foot long, of which I had already heard. Dinner was cooked and eaten, and I climbed into my sleeping bag. I was back on the trail and doing well, in position to cross the Kennebec River the next morning.

{% include gallery layout="half" %}