---
author_profile: true
date: 24-06-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/25
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/24
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/23
title: June 24
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

I woke up to a woman messing with some piece of clutter on my sheltered porch. I said, "Good morning!", and she, not realizing I was there, returned my greeting and hastily retreated to her car and left. I kept hoping the police would show up and take me to a nice dry, warm jail cell, but no dice.

The rain continued on, though lighter than the previous day's deluge. I kept waiting for a break to start walking, but that break never came. Finally I put my rain jacket on over my pack and started out. I went to the Houlton Church of Christ and arrived just in time.

The church was a lot smaller than I expected it to be, and I can imagine that I must have bewildered all twelve of the people in attendance. Of course, after they found out that I was hiking and not homeless they exhaled.

The minister and his wife graciously offered to let me stay with them, which I did. I sat on the couch for awhile and relaxed, took a shower, and enjoyed all the glories of not being rained on.

At evening church I met the Daltons, who live up in Monticello and have a junkyard right on the trail. I planned to visit them the next day. Back at the house I enjoyed some television and then went to bed. It had been nice to take a day off.