---
author_profile: true
date: 26-06-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/june/27
permalink: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/june/26
previous:
    url: exploration/easterncontinentaltrail/journal/june/25
title: June 26
---
I woke up, but not on a trail schedule. I was living the lazy life at the Daltons'. Eric and I went and grabbed breakfast on our way to the junkyard. It was forecast to rain at any time that day, and it could be hard.

The previous day Eric and I had gone and checked the river, which was insanely high. There were reports of road outages and a railroad that got washed out. I was not particularly pleased to be experiencing record rainfall during my time in Northern Maine, but to see it happen was certainly interesting.

I sat around at the yard and talked with Eric occasionally. I played a game or two on my iPhone and did other unproductive things instead of writing journal entries, which is what I had originally planned.

Eric and I drove around a bit and I sat in his nice dry truck while he checked his workers' progress at his contractual site. They were removing a bunch of junk from a property that used to be a mill of some sort. Of course the junk was old buildings and giant equipment, so they had to cut it all up and smash it all up, then load it all onto tractor trailers.

I watched with interest as the workers did their jobs, sometimes without wearing their rain coats. I knew hiking had changed my outlook on rain a bit, but I don't think I would work all day in the rain without a jacket even before my trek began.

After work we headed back to the house and had dinner, which was great. The Daltons had many movies so we watched another before I set up my mat on the floor. I had stayed dry, so it was a successful day.