---
author_profile: true
date: 27-06-2012 12:00:00 -0500
layout: single
next:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/28
permalink: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/27
previous:
    url: exploration/eastern-continental-trail/journal/june/26
title: June 27
---
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/dayrow-finder.md %}
{% include exploration/eastern-continental-trail/daily-description.html %}

It was another zero day spent hanging out with the Daltons. It was supposed to rain again, though possibly not as much as the previous few days. Eric and I grabbed breakfast first, then went to the yard.

Once again I planned to do journal entries, but got sidetracked by the simple pleasure of games I had on my iPhone. I met a few of Eric's workers and talked with them about my trip. I also talked briefly with Julie, Eric's wife, who manages the scrap individuals bring to the yard.

It did rain some and I was happy to be nice and dry, but I felt a little silly while sitting in Eric's truck as his employees broke down scrap all day in the rain. I knew that technically I could walk in the rain, but I was using the weather as an excuse not to walk.

I was growing tired of hiking. The Appalachian Trail had been quite challenging but a lot of fun. I had completed it but now I still had to walk. Also, I missed my friends from the trail. It felt a little lonely hiking the IAT and not seeing any other hikers and few people in general.

After work we all went back to the house for dinner and a movie. I was starting to get the hang of this new way of life. I laid out my sleeping pad and went to bed.